Fula people of Sierra Leone (Pular: 𞤊𞤵𞤤𞤩𞤫 𞤅𞤢𞤪𞤤𞤮𞤲)  is the fourth major ethnic group in Sierra Leone after the Temne, Mende and Limba ethnic groups and a branch of the Fula people of West Africa. The Fula make up about 3.4% of Sierra Leone's population. The  Sierra Leone Fula people settled in the Western Area region of Sierra Leone more than four hundred years ago as settlers from the Fouta Djallon Kingdom that expanded to northern Sierra Leone (Kabala, Bombali). The Sierra Leonean Fula are traditionally a nomadic, pastoralist, trading people, herding cattle, goats and sheep across the vast dry hinterlands of their domain, keeping somewhat separate from the local agricultural populations. Many of the large shopping centers in Sierra Leone are owned and run by the Fula community. Today, almost all Sierra Leonean Fula are Muslims of the Sunni tradition of Islam. The overwhelming majority of Fula are adherent to the Maliki School within Sunni Islam. A significant number of the Sierra Leonean Fula population are found in all regions of Sierra Leone as traders. The Fulas have been migrating and settling within Sierra Leone since the 17th Century. Many Fulas today in Sierra Leone are  descendants of those who fled the autocratic rule of president Ahmed Sekou Toure and found refuge in the 1960s and 1970s. Others are new arrivals of the last decades due to the open borders that the Mano River Union and globalisation have created in the West African region.  Family The Sierra Leonean Fula villages are scattered, but each has a central court and a mosque. Together, these compose a miside (community). Each miside has a sub-chief who handles village affairs and who answers to a Sultan (chief). The homes of the settled Fula are round with clay walls and thatched roofs that projects over encircling porches. However, nomadic Fula live in simpler structures, since they are so often moving with the herds. These houses have neither walls nor verandahs, and are encircled by cattle corrals. Daughters remain with their mothers until they marry. However, as soon as a son reaches puberty, he leaves the family compound and lives alone in a nearby compound, usually taking over a part of his father’s trade. This new compound will be the home of the son and his future wife.  Religious and traditional beliefs The majority of Sierra Leonean Fulanis are Muslims although a few are Christians. Some Fula practice herbal healings. The "herd owner's feast" is one such ceremony. During this feast, a bull that has served ten seasons is presented, killed, and eaten. The Fula people also utilize practices of the Bondo secret society which aims at gradually but firmly  establishing attitudes related to adulthood in girls, discussions on fertility, morality and proper sexual comportment. The society also maintains an interest in the well-being of its members throughout their lives.  Farming The Sierra Leonean Fula are primarily skilled traders in diamonds, gems, gold, lending but formerly cattle, with their lives depending upon and revolving around trade cattle herds prior to the 19th century. The status of a family can be determined by the size and health of its trade. The more a man knows about trade, the greater respect he is given by the community. Trade is usually a male activity; however, the women tend to act as accountants for the family. They also tend to the small livestock and poultry, cultivate gardens, and carry containers of milk and cheese to the local markets for sale or trade. As the Fula people are Muslim, a woman has all the rights and concerns provided her under Islam. In a Fula family, a mother is 7 times the father, as it pertains to respect and a mother’s rights under Islam.  Notable Sierra Leonean Fula people Abubakarr Jalloh, former Sierra Leone Minister of Mineral Resources Abu Bakarr Bah, Ph.D.: Professor of Sociology, Northern Illinois University, IL, USA and Editor-in-Chief, African Conflict & Peacebuilding Review Alhaji M.B. Jalloh, former Sierra Leone ambassador to Saudi Arabia and the Persian Gulf States Alpha Rashid Jalloh notable journalist and now magistrate Alimamy Jalloh, Sierra Leonean football star Alimamy Rassin, Sierra Leonean Fula chief during colonial period Alhaji Amadu Jalloh, Sierra Leonean opposition politician and leader of the National Democratic Alliance political Amadu Wurie, early Sierra Leonean educationist and politician Abass Bundu, Speaker of the Sierra Leone Parliament Chernor Maju Bah, current Majority leader of the opposition Amadu Wurie, First Minister of Education of Sierra Leone Alpha Wurie, Sierra Leone former minister of Health Alhaji Mohamed Bailor Barrie, Prominent Sierra Leonean businessman, tribal leader, activist, and philanthropist in the 1970s and 1980s Ibrahim Bah (nickname Inspector Bah), Retired Sierra Leonean footballer Ibrahim Bundu, former majority leader of the Sierra Leone Parliament Khalifa Jabbie Mamadu Alphajor Bah, Sierra Leonean football star Mohamed Juldeh Jalloh, current vice president of Sierra Leone Momodu Allieu Pat-Sowe, former Transportation minister of Sierra Leone Rashid Wurie, former Sierra Leonean international football star Sajoh Bah, African languages advocate, author and poet, Mohamed Kanu Yayah Jalloh  References See also Koinadugu District

Mevo Horon (Hebrew: מְבוֹא חוֹרוֹן, lit. 'Horon Gateway') is an Israeli settlement and religious moshav shitufi in the West Bank. Located near Latrun and Modi'in, it falls under the jurisdiction of Mateh Binyamin Regional Council. In 2022 it had a population of 2,669. The international community considers Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal under international law, but the Israeli government disputes this.  History The village was established in 1970 by members of the Ezra youth movement and was the first village in the Mateh Binyamin council area. It moved to the present site in 1974. It is named after the biblical Beit Horon (Joshua 10:10), which was located near the modern Israeli village and settlement of Beit Horon. Some Palestinians managed to return to the area after their expulsion from the villages of Yalo, Imwas and Bayt Nuba on whose lands the moshav was established, and gained employment as farm hands at Mevo Horon in the 1980s. During the early stages of the Al Aqsa Intifada, when the main checkpoint into Israel was moved several kilometers east of Mevo Horon and further into the West Bank, the moshav made arrangements to pick up these workers at the new checkpoint, though since they lacked Israeli work permits, difficulties arose. On June 7, 2018, residents of Mevo Horon and Israeli descendants of Dutch Jews inaugurated the town's Chasdei Enosh synagogue, which is an exact replica of the synagogue that once stood in Terborg, in the Netherlands, blown up by the Nazis in early 1945.  References External links  Village website (in Hebrew)

Jaroslav "Yogi" Svejkovský (born October 1, 1976) is a Czech ice hockey coach and former professional left wing. He currently serves as an assistant coach of the Vancouver Canucks. He was drafted in the first round, 17th overall, by the Washington Capitals in the 1996 NHL Entry Draft, and played for them and the Tampa Bay Lightning.  Career As a player Drafted from the Western Hockey League's Tri-City Americans, Svejkovský made his professional debut with the Portland Pirates of the American Hockey League in the 1996–97 season. He played a key part in the Pirates' offence; his 38 goals and 66 points earned him the Dudley "Red" Garrett Memorial Award as the league's best rookie. He made his NHL debut during the same season with the Capitals, appearing in 19 games and scoring seven goals. In the Capitals' last game of the 1996–97 season, Svejkovský scored four goals, as Washington beat the Buffalo Sabres 8–3. He remains the only Capitals rookie to date to score four goals in one game. Svejkovský's subsequent playing years were plagued by injuries and inconsistent play. He played only 42 games over the next two seasons, missing significant time due to ankle injuries and a concussion. By mid-January 2000, Svejkovský had played only 23 of the Capitals' 37 games that season, missing seven games with a shoulder injury. He had served as a healthy scratch for seven of the Capitals' last eight games when, on January 17, he was traded to the Tampa Bay Lightning for a seventh-round draft pick in the 2000 NHL entry draft and a third-round pick in the 2001 draft. Up to that point, Svejkovský had not registered a goal since the Capitals' first game of the season.  Svejkovský finished the season with the Lightning, then was assigned to begin the 2000–01 season in the International Hockey League with the Detroit Vipers. He sustained a concussion during his second game for the Vipers, subsequently retiring from the sport without taking part in any more games. In a 2002 USA Today story, Tampa Bay Lightning general manager Jay Feaster said that Svejkovský was out of hockey due to post-concussion syndrome. In his NHL career, Svejkovský appeared in 113 games, scoring 23 goals and adding 19 assists.  As a coach In 2024, Svejkovský was named an assistant coach for the Vancouver Canucks. He is also Director of Hockey Operations with the Seafair Minor Hockey Association, and Program Director of the BC Bears AAA spring hockey association.  Career statistics Regular season and playoffs Awards WHL West Second All-Star Team – 1995-96 season Dudley "Red" Garrett Memorial Award (most outstanding rookie in AHL): 1996–97 season  References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

Mount Mansfield Modified Union School District (MMUUSD), formerly the Mount Mansfield Union School District #17, is a school district headquartered in Jericho, Vermont. It is the district farthest east in Chittenden County, Vermont.  There are approximately 2600 students enrolled in the district. Each town in the district has its own elementary school, which serves K-4th grade. Students from Huntington, Bolton and Richmond attend Camels Hump Middle School. Those from Jericho and Underhill attend Browns River Middle School. Both middle schools serve grades 5-8. The district's high school is Mount Mansfield Union High School, located in Jericho, which takes students graduating from both middle schools, and serves grades 9-12.  History The predecessor districts were in the Chittenden East Supervisory Union (CESU), which was their umbrella organization. In a span of ten years the residents of the predecessor districts voted on whether to merge their school districts on five occasions. The vote that day favored consolidation. The district was established effective November 4, 2014. The merged district began operations the following year. In 2011 there was a vote among the towns on whether to merge that did not pass. Another such vote was scheduled in 2014. The district formed with the voluntary merger of the Bolton, Jericho, Richmond, and Underhill school districts. When MMUUSD formed, Huntington residents already had representation as the community sent its secondary students there, but Huntington continued to have its own elementary school district. Residents of Huntington resisted merging for a longer time, with four unsuccessful votes on merging into MMUUSD. At one point the state of Vermont passed Act 46 that obligated school districts to merge. The Huntington School District sued the state government to try to stop the merger. In 2018 the Huntington district filed its third lawsuit against mergers. On June 6, 2019, the vote to merge Huntington into Mount Mansfield succeeded on a 450-191 basis; the Chittenden East Supervisory Union dissolved as a result.  Schools High school Mount Mansfield Union High School Middle schools Browns River Middle School Camels Hump Middle School Elementary schools Brewster-Pierce Memorial School (Huntington) - In 2019 it had 136 students. Jericho Elementary School Richmond Elementary School Smilie Memorial School Underhill Central School Preschool Underhill ID Preschool Former schools Underhill I.D. Elementary School - In 2018 the board voted to close the school effective 2019, with eight members favoring and five opposing. Students were moved to Jericho Elementary School and Underhill Central School.  References Further reading Bolton School District; Huntington School District; Jericho School District; Richmond School District; Underhill Town School District; Underhill ID School District; Mount Mansfield Union School District #17 Regional Education District (RED) Planning Committee Report - Vermont Legislature  External links Mount Mansfield Modified Union School District Chittenden East Supervisory Union at the Wayback Machine (archive index)

Eberhard Hertel (German: [ˈeːbɐhaʁt ˈhɛʁtl̩]; 29 November 1938 – 20 June 2024) was a German singer who was known for Volkstümliche Musik.  Life and career Hertel had originally wanted to become a farmer after leaving school, but he then chose otherwise. He found that he preferred singing the local Volkslieder (a genre of German folk music), which led him to become a star in East Germany. His musical career began in 1976 at a talent contest called Heitere Premiere ("Cheerful Premiere"). In the 1970s success came his way when he appeared onstage with Hannelore Kalin (b. 1939) as a yodeller. In 1979, both were chosen as East Germany's most successful yodelling duo. Over many years, Hertel was a regular on the Volkstümliche Musik programme Oberhofer Bauernmarkt ("Oberhof Farmers' Market"), which was recorded at the Hotel Panorama in Oberhof (and indeed, the show was named after a series of public events held at that same hotel). He did renditions of a great many well known Saxon folksongs on the programme; in particular, his interpretation of Der Vugelbeerbaam ("The Rowan Tree") with Gerhard Honig's orchestra in 1984 was greatly popular. After German Reunification, Hertel successfully continued his career, even if he did yield the spotlight ever more often to his daughter Stefanie Hertel, withdrawing somewhat into the background. She had been accompanying him since her appearance in 1985 on Oberhofer Bauernmarkt. Together they sang such songs as Wenn der Vater und die Tochter, Kleine Träume, the Rennsteiglied, folk poet Anton Günther's Feieromd or Christmas songs like 's Raachermannel. In 1996, Hertel, along with his daughter, released the joint single Kleine Fische werden groß ("Little Fish Get Big"), a cover version of Vader Abraham's Als je weggaat, in which he sings about his daughter's early love, and the dread of her leaving her girlhood home. Thereafter, he and she went mostly their separate musical ways, but even so, they sometimes still appeared as a duet act in various television shows until early 2024. Hertel stood on the stage all together more than 60 years and published eleven studio albums. On 29 November 2008, Hertel marked his 70th birthday at the Adventsfest der 100.000 Lichter ("Advent Festival of the 100,000 Lights") at the Congress Centrum Suhl. Moreover, he produced for MDR Fernsehen the film Papa wird 70 ("Papa Turns 70") by his daughter Stefanie Hertel and Stefan Mross. In 2018, Hertel's eleventh and last studio album, Ich brauch Musik ("I Need Music"), came out, a jubilee album meant to mark his 80th birthday. Hertel was always setting himself to work on charitable goals, and thus he organized in August 2002 a benefit concert for victims of the flooding in Saxony earlier that year. He himself appeared at the concert. Hertel was married to his wife Elisabeth (1950–2017) until her death. They had four children, among them singer, media presenter and musical theatre performer Stefanie Hertel. He died on 20 June 2024, at the age of 85. On the occasion of his death, the town flag outside the town hall overlooking the marketplace in his hometown, Oelsnitz, was flown at half-mast.  Honours On 3 December 2008, Hertel was named an honorary citizen of his hometown, Oelsnitz, by the Chief Mayor (Oberbürgermeisterin) of Oelsnitz, Eva-Maria Möbius. The citation reads in part "Through his success throughout Germany and beyond, he has made his hometown famous." It also praises Hertel's benefit work for the town, in particular that done for the town's 650th anniversary in 2006.  Discography Music albums  1997: Lieder wie das Leben 1999: Die besten Jahre kommen noch 2000: Das Beste der Volksmusik 2000: Wenn das kein Grund zum Feiern ist 2001: Wir sind alle kleine Sünderlein 2002: So schön ist unsere Welt 2005: Voll im Leben 2007: Auf das Leben, auf die Liebe 2008: Danke Freunde – das Jubiläumsalbum zum 70. Geburtstag 2012: Wir feiern ab heute das Leben – inkl. 2 Duette mit Tochter Stefanie 2018: Ich brauch Musik – das Jubiläumsalbum zum 80. Geburtstag  Television 2008: Papa wird 70 (by Stefanie Hertel and Stefan Mross; MDR Fernsehen) 2018: Musikgeschichten mit Eberhard Hertel (90-minute MDR programme in which Hertel presents clips of his own and colleagues' appearances from various television programmes, interspersed with stories of his life and career) Hertel also made many guest appearances on various musical programmes; a selection follows:  1983: Zwischen Frühstück und Gänsebraten 1987: Ein Kessel Buntes 1988: Zwischen Frühstück und Gänsebraten 1989: Musikantenstadl 1990: Zwischen Frühstück und Gänsebraten 1991: Ein Kessel Buntes 1996: Das Sommerfest der Volksmusik (from the series Feste der Volksmusik) 1997: Das Weihnachtsfest der Volksmusik (from the series Feste der Volksmusik) 2004: Zauberhafte Heimat 2005: Musikantendampfer 2005: Willkommen bei Carmen Nebel 2005: Das Hochzeitsfest der Volksmusik (from the series Feste der Volksmusik) 2005: Das Adventsfest der Volksmusik (from the series Feste der Volksmusik) 2007: Danke Dieter Thomas Heck 2008: Das Adventsfest der Volksmusik (from the series Feste der Volksmusik) 2009: Musikantenstadl 2017: Die große Show der Weihnachtslieder 2021: Schlager-Spaß mit Andy Borg 2023: Schlager-Spaß mit Andy Borg 2023: Zauberhafte Weihnacht im Land der ‚Stillen Nacht‘ He also appeared on some talk shows (selection):  1998: MDR Sachsenspiegel 2005: Wir in Bayern 2005: Zibb 2013: MDR Sachsenspiegel 2018: Riverboat 2019: Riverboat 2020: Riverboat  References External links Literature by and about Eberhard Hertel in the German National Library catalogue Eberhard Hertel discography at Discogs Eberhard Hertel at IMDb

Salvacion Lim-Higgins (January 28, 1920 – September 15, 1990), also known professionally as Slim, was a Filipino fashion designer known for her haute couture. She is considered by many Filipino culture critics to be the mother of the modern terno.  In 2022, she was named a National Artist of the Philippines, being the second fashion designer to receive the distinction following her contemporary Ramon Valera.  Early life and education Salvacion Lim-Higgins was born on January 28, 1920, to Luis Samson Lim Katiam and Margarita Navera Diaz. Her father was a Chinese immigrant who was involved in the ship chandler industry while her mother was a housewife. Salvacion had six other siblings. A native of Legazpi, Lim went to Manila to study fine arts at the University of Santo Tomas (UST) and aimed to be a painter. She had Botong Francisco as her mentor in UST. Her studies was disrupted by World War II. She would later enroll at the Traphagen School of Design in New York before returning to the Philippines in 1952.  Career World War II led her to pursue a more practical career in fashion design. After the end of the war, while waiting for school to resume, she sent sketches of her fashion design to the Manila Times, and began going by the trade name "Slim". Along with her elder sister Purificacion and family friend Consuelo Barberan, Slim would set up a fashion design shop in Manila in 1947 which later moved along to what is now Taft Avenue. Slim, would be heavily influenced by Hollywood culture of the 1950s and 1960s and would frequent Europe and New York to study fashion collections, learn techniques, and buy designer clothes to further improve her craft. In 1960, Slim and Purificacion founded the Slim's Fashion and Art school, the first fashion school in the Philippines. Slim briefly retired to become a housewife after getting married in the 1960s but came out of retirement in the mid-1970s. She would open her second shop along Amorsolo Street.  Illness and death Lim would be diagnosed with lung cancer in the mid-1980s despite being a non-smoker. She died on September 15, 1990.  Legacy Lim would be known for reinventing the terno. She was posthumously recognized as a National Artist of the Philippines in June 2022.  Personal life Lim was married to Hubert Higgins, an Irish expatriate in the Philippines, with whom they had two children. They married in 1960 when Lim was 40 years old and Higgins was 47.   == References ==

Grenville Battery is a former coastal artillery battery, built to defend the Royal Naval Dockyard at Devonport. The battery was originally built between 1760 and 1791 as part of the Maker Redoubt line and then named 'Maker No 4 (North Gloucester) Redoubt', it was intended to form part of a long defensive line of bastions to a larger fort which was never built. The battery had 15 gun embrasures. It was disarmed in 1815. The re-modelling of the battery was proposed in 1885 on the recommendations of the Stanhope Committee report and completed in 1887. It was renamed Grenville Battery in 1899.  It was built with emplacements for two 12.5-inch Rifled Muzzle Loading (RML) guns which were both mounted. However, in 1890 they were moved to nearby Maker Battery.  The gun positions were served by underground magazines. The rear of the battery is enclosed by a loopholed wall, small ditch and drawbridge. There was no barrack accommodation at the battery, but a small cookhouse was built to cater for the men expected to man the battery and nearby Maker Battery. The battery was upgraded with newer armament in 1899 when the battery was re-modelled for three 4.7-inch Quick Firing (QF) guns which were installed by 1901. These remained in place until 1927 when they were dismounted. The battery was abandoned by the War Office in 1948. The battery remains complete and was Grade II listed in 1972. It was overgrown for many years, but in 2020 the battery was cleared of undergrowth and accumulated rubbish by the Rame Conservation Trust, with financial support from Historic England.  References Bibliography Hogg, Ian V (1974). Coast Defences of England and Wales 1856–1956. David & Charles. ISBN 0-7153 6353-0. Woodward, Freddy (1996). The Historic Defences of Plymouth. Cornwall County Council. ISBN 978-1898166467.  External links Victorian Forts data sheet

The University of North Texas at Dallas College of Law (UNT Dallas College of Law) is a law school institution accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA). It is located at 106 S. Harwood St. in the UNT Dallas Law Center.  The parent institution is University of North Texas at Dallas (UNTD) and is the only public law school in Dallas. The first class entered in the fall of 2014. The school was originally housed in the historic Titche-Goettinger Building in downtown Dallas. The school has been called "unconventional" in its goal of educating lawyers as public servants. The school places less emphasis on national rankings and LSAT scores in favor of students with life experiences. The school also hired faculty to focus entirely on teaching instead of legal scholarship. The school's low tuition fees have resulted in a lower acceptance rate than the national average. As of February 2022, UNT Dallas College of Law is fully accredited by the ABA.  History The University of North Texas at Dallas, the first public university in the city of Dallas, was first created in 2000. The university's law school accepted its first class in 2014. The school was denied accreditation by the American Bar Association in 2016, but received provisional accreditation in 2017. Provisional status allows graduating students to take the bar exam. On February 8, 2022, the school received full approval from the American Bar Association. The school's founding dean was former federal district judge Royal Furgeson. The school's initial campus was in the UNT System Building, the former Titche-Goettinger Building, at 1901 Main St. and then expanded in 2019 to include the nearby Dallas Municipal Building at 106 South Harwood; which the school purchased for $1. In 2015, the Texas Legislature approved a $56 million bond to pay for a renovation of the school's future campus. The class entering in 2023 had an average LSAT score of 153 and average GPA of 3.43 for full time students.  Cost Cost for the 2023-24 academic year was $19,127 for in-state students and $32,008 for out-of-state students. As of 2014, UNTD was the least expensive law school in Texas, and, in 2017, had an acceptance rate of 42.26%.  Bar passage The first graduating class had a 59.32% passage rate for the 2017 July Bar exam, the lowest in the state. The pass rates increased to 61.18% in July 2018 and 67.61% in July 2019. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic the Bar exam was administered in September 2020 and October 2020, with UNTD pass rates of 62.5% and 74.19% respectively. UNTD had a pass rate of 68.37% in July 2021 and 61.05% in July 2022.  Notable faculty Thomas Perkins, Dallas City Attorney (2005–2013)  Notable alumni Darryl Morris, NFL cornerback and free agent who signed with the San Francisco 49ers, New York Giants, and Houston Texans.  References External links Official website

Ezekiel Cornell (1732/33 – April 25, 1800) was a Revolutionary War general who represented Rhode Island in the U.S. Continental Congress from 1780 to 1782.  Early life Ezekiel Cornell was born in on March 27, 1732/33 in either Dartmouth, Massachusetts or Scituate, Rhode Island to Richard Cornell and Content Brownell. He was a descendant of Thomas Cornell. Ezekiel Cornell married Rachel Wood of Little Compton on March 25, 1760, and they had two surviving children, Ezra and Rhoda. Cornell attended the public schools and was employed as a mechanic. Cornell served as Scituate's town meeting moderator in 1768, 1781 and 1785 and as a Deputy (Representative) from Scituate to the General Assembly in 1772, 1774 and 1775. In August 1774 he was commissioned as the colonel of the 3rd Providence County Regiment of the Rhode Island Militia.  Revolutionary War service During the American Revolution Cornell, nicknamed "Old Snarl," was appointed lieutenant colonel in Hitchcock's Regiment in April 1775 and was present at the Siege of Boston. The unit and fought at Bunker Hill in June 1775 and was taken into the Continental Army when General George Washington arrived in July to take command.  Following the British evacuation of Boston in March 1776, the army was redeployed to Long Island in September 1776. On Long Island he occupied the former British controlled St. George's Episcopal Church (Hempstead, New York), which had been founded by relatives of Cornell including his cousin William Cornell, and was a hotbed of Tory sentiment, and Cornell sought to root out Loyalists. Cornell "converted the Episcopal Church into a store house, forbid the parson to pray for the King or any of the Royal Family and made use of the communion table as a convenience for his Yankees to eat upon." Cornell was part of the Continental Army contingent, dispatched by General Nathaniel Greene that arrested Loyalist Mayor of New York David Mathews on June 22, 1776, on suspicion of Mathews' participation in the plot by Thomas Hickey to kill General George Washington. Cornell left Hempstead sometime before August 1776.  On October 1, 1776, Cornell was appointed Deputy Adjutant General of the Continental Army.  Cornell resigned from the Continental Army in December 1776 and returned to Rhode Island. Cornell was appointed brigadier general of Rhode Island state troops on December 1, 1777, and served until March 16, 1780.  He commanded a brigade of state troops consisting of two infantry regiments of eight companies each and an artillery regiment of four batteries. Cornell played an active role at the Battle of Rhode Island in 1778.  Continental Congress service Cornell served as a member of the Continental Congress from 1780 until 1782 and chaired the military committee.  After his service in Congress, he retired to his farm at Scituate, Rhode Island. Ezekiel Cornell died in Milford, Massachusetts on April 25, 1800. His site of burial is unknown.  References External links  United States Congress. "Ezekiel Cornell (id: C000781)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.

Nan Lin (born 1938 in Chongqing, China) is the Oscar L. Tang Family Professor of Sociology of the Trinity College, Duke University. He is most notable for his research and writing on social networks and social capital.  Biography Lin received his undergraduate degree from Tunghai University, Taiwan, in 1960; his M.A. from Syracuse University in 1963; and his doctorate degree from Michigan State University in 1966. He entered the sociology department at the University at Albany, SUNY in 1971, became a full professor there in 1976 and served as department chair from 1979 to 1982. In 1979, he established contacts with sociologists in the People's Republic of China and established an exchange program between Albany and Nankai University. He also helped organize the first U.S.-China doctoral program in sociology. In 1990 he took a position as sociology professor at Duke University, where he also served as Director of the Asian-Pacific Studies Institute. A former Vice President of the American Sociological Association, he has also taught at Johns Hopkins University. He has worked in the United States, Central America, Haiti, China, and Taiwan.  Research Lin's research interest lies in social networks, social support and social capital. He has contributed theory, devised measurements and conducted empirical research in each of these areas. He has applied the theory and measurements to the study of social stratification and mobility, stress and coping, and individual, organization and community well-being. Lin has employed both quantitative methods—such as large-scale national surveys, and surveys in organizations and communities—and qualitative methods, such as intensive long-term observations in villages, for example. Having written about social networks since the early 1980s, Lin contributed to the economically-oriented branch of the literature on social capital defined by Mark Granovetter and James Coleman, seeking to establish a research paradigm which integrates theory with empirical testing. His definition of social capital as access to resources through network ties is one of the most widely accepted conceptualizations of the term. This definition of social capital is quantifiable and widely held to be more precise than the one popularized by Robert Putnam. Lin also rejects Putnam's thesis, put forward in Bowling Alone, that social capital is decreasing; he maintains that it is, in fact, on the ascent thanks to increasingly pervasive online networking.  Honors and awards Lin is an academician at the Academia Sinica, Taiwan. He delivered the Fei Xiao-tong Memorial Lecture at Peking University in 2008, was honored the same year at the “Re-construction and Development of Sociology in China and Nan Lin’s Intellectual Thoughts” at Tsinghua University, and gave the Famous Foreign Lectures at the Interuniversity Center for Social Science Theory and Methodology at the University of Groningen in 2006. He holds an honorary doctorate degree from the National Chengchi University and distinguished visiting or honorary professorships at many universities and institutes, including Nankai University, Renmin University, Fudan University, Peking University, Academia Sinica, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Jilin University, Tianjin Academy of Social Sciences and Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences. Lin received the Distinguished Research Contribution Award by the International Association of Chinese Management Research in 2010.  Publications Lin has authored or edited eleven books, forty book chapters and numerous journal articles. His books include Social Capital: A Theory of Social Structure and Action, which has been praised as "the definitive work on the subject of social capital," amongst others:  Lin, Nan; Karen S. Cook; Ronald S. Burt (2001-07-01). Social Capital: Theory and Research. New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction. ISBN 978-0-202-30644-5. Lin, Nan (2001). Social Capital: A Theory of Social Structure and Action. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-52167-3. Lin, Nan; Bonnie Erickson, eds. (2008-03-06). Social Capital: An International Research Program. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-923438-7.  References External links Nan Lin's Homepage at Duke

Herbert Black is a Canadian businessman, art collector, and philanthropist. He is currently President & CEO of American Iron & Metal Company Inc.  American Iron & Metal Company, Inc. (AIM) American Iron & Metal is based in Montreal, Quebec, and currently has over 2,500 employees and 80 locations around the globe, with revenues exceeding $2 billion. Established in 1936 by Black's father, Peter, AIM buys, services, processes, and supplies all types of ferrous and nonferrous scrap metal. Black took over AIM with his brother Ronald in 1970. A global leader in metal recycling, manufacturing, and environmental services, AIM has grown both organically as well as via acquisition. The company has branched out into five separate lines of business: AIM Recycling, AIM Solder, Delsan AIM (demolition services), AIM Kenny U-Pull (secondary auto parts) and AIM Éco-Centre (dry waste treatment).  Biography Herbert Black joined his father's scrap metal recycling business, American Iron and Metal Company Inc. ("AIM") in 1961, at the age of 17. Over the past 55+ years, he has played a key role in transforming AIM from a local scrap operation to one of the largest and most successful recycling enterprises in North America. Mr. Black was awarded the 2005 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the year award in the Business to Business category as well as the 2005 National Citation for Entrepreneurial Philanthropy awarded by Ernst & Young.  Legal Controversies Sumitomo In June 1996, Sumitomo, at the time the largest trader of copper in the world, announced that it had suspended its chief copper trader, Yasuo Hamanaka, for secret, unauthorized transactions. It was alleged that he was able to artificially raise the price of copper by manipulating the company to purchase up to 2 million tonnes of copper. Three players were linked to the scandal as short sellers: George Soros with Quantum Fund, Julian Robertson with Tiger Fund, and Black with AIM. While trading on two other stock exchanges, Black assumed as a result of this that the price of copper would decrease as supply appeared to be superior to demand. While he lost money from other trading activities in late 1995, he profited greatly from the announcement of the suspension by Sumitomo as the price of copper dropped significantly. However, he still claimed to have lost money from his trading activity due to the scandal and launched an official complaint with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the body which regulated commodities trading. It was as a result of this complaint that he met Denis O'Keefe, the deputy director of Compliance for the CFTC, and they began to meet regularly.  It was subsequently revealed that Black would provide information to O'Keefe and based on this information, persuaded him to continue the investigation of Sumitomo. O'Keefe, a practicing lawyer, was secretly taking folders related to the CFTC case on Sumitomo and providing them to Black, and was also advising him on how to retrieve other documents with relevant information through the Freedom of Information Act, allegedly for the purpose of profiting from Sumitomo's apparent trading manipulation. In December 2000 O'Keefe was dismissed from the CFTC, and when he left he took additional documents related to the Sumitomo case to give to Black. With this information and that of other documents he had acquired, in April 2002 Black launched a lawsuit in the US against Sumitomo, as well as against Global Minerals & Metals and Merrill Lynch. In May, he launched a second lawsuit in the UK. Black alleged in these suits that his losses were at least US$256 million. In its defense, Global stated how similar this case was to other cases in Black's "'history': They stated that his pattern was to 'corrupt' individuals and convince them to 'betray' the trust that had been confided in them." O'Keefe was a witness in the American case and admitted to perjury. Lawyers arguing against Black in both the US and the UK trials discovered that he was trading on multiple exchanges and was short selling in both accounts, and so questioned whether he suffered any losses as a result of the decline in copper prices. They soon realized that he was using one account to cover up short selling on the other, all the while declaring losses from each side. All parties in the American case eventually reached an out-of-court settlement. However the judge in the case required that Black "abandons with compensation the prosecution in England" as well. He was also ordered to return all illegally obtained evidence to the government and sign an affidavit or he would personally charge Black for racketeering. Dissatisfied by O'Keefe's lack of punishment, Sumitomo went to the Bar of the District of Columbia which conducted a disciplinary investigation and found him to be in violation of 11 rules of the Code of Ethics. He was later struck from the Bar.  Christie's and Sotheby's Auction Houses In January 2000 Black was the lead plaintiff in a successful class action lawsuit accusing the heads of Christie's and Sotheby's auction houses of price-fixing their products. An avid art collector, he noticed he was no longer able to avoid sellers' fees by playing one house against the other in negotiations, and so began his investigation into the potential collusion between them. All the while, he continued to buy from each house, believing he would eventually be compensated when he had enough evidence to launch his lawsuit.  JITEC In 2000, Black allegedly repeated the process by forging a friendship with up-and-coming businessman Benoît Laliberté. Laliberté, whose company JITEC's stock had risen from CDN$3.80 per share in late July 2000 to CDN$11.65 in only a few weeks, met Black in September 2000 and he became an advisor to Laliberté. Black soon asked for free trading shares in JITEC, a request which was denied by Laliberté. Then in October 2000, Black filed a complaint with the Quebec Securities Commission (QSC) against Laliberté stating that he was involved in questionable trading that helped boost JITEC's stock. Among the staff Black met with at the QSC was Jean Lorrain who was the Director of Compliance. Lorrain later went on to testify at an inquiry into the matter that Black had "put enormous pressure on the commission" to quickly "halt trading in JITEC stock" but that he had "presented himself as not having any personal connection to JITEC." He described Black as "an industrialist who has had disputes before (…) with other securities commissions, always as an informant or as (…) a white knight, in the way of a person who crusades against illegal activities. (…) he always turns a personal profit from the scandals in which he acts as an informant." Another investigator of the case, Paul Trudeau of the Commission des valeurs mobilières du Québec (CVMQ), now known as the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF), admitted to have accepted a bribe of $1,000 from Black in 2000. After their initial meeting regarding JITEC, Trudeau was frequently invited by Black to his home in Westmount for drinks. This was deemed highly unusual by his superiors. It was then that Black would extract information from him about JITEC. When they were out for dinner one night, Black invited Trudeau back to this car and gave him $1000 cash in return for his secrecy. This was revealed by a fellow employee of the CVMQ, Catherine Gagnon. She had been informed of the bribe through an acquaintance, but when she confronted Trudeau about it she feared he would become suicidal if the truth was known. For this reason, she kept this information to herself for three month, as well as because she "feared for her life", knowing of Black's wealth, power, and reputation. She finally revealed what she knew after she found out that another QSC investigator, Laurent Lemieux, was fired for leaking information about the JITEC case to the press. Trudeau was dismissed from the QSC but appealed against this in court. As the QSC were eager to be rid of him, it was decided that he would receive his salary through to December 2006 so long as he would never come within 75 feet of any QSC office. While Black, denied the bribe, he later admitted to shorting JITEC's stock after believing it would plummet when a news article came out based on information that he had given the QSC, along with privileged information he had received through his connection to Laliberté. Don MacDonald, a writer for The Montreal Gazette, would later admit to having Black as an informant on the JITEC case. This was seen as questionable as Black was not an insider and never an official shareholder in JITEC. There would often be articles written by MacDonald with information on the case that were published earlier in the day than when the information was made public. While Black and others were short selling JITEC stock, the price was allegedly artificially boosted from CAD3.00 to CAD11.00, causing a significant loss to all short sellers. This led to a class action lawsuit with the initial $25 000 funded by Black for through Kugler Kandestin Attorneys. MacDonald already had an article published about it in The Gazette the morning of the day that the lawsuit was launched. MacDonald also had an article published regarding the cease-trading order on Laliberté signed by Paul Trudeau the same morning that Laliberté received it in November 2000. Investors in JITEC had started rumours in online forums and chat rooms that MacDonald was gay and a pedophile in order to discredit him – something Laliberté firmly denies any involvement in. However, the constant bad publicity of JITEC continued to put downward pressure on its stock. JITEC finally collapsed in 2001. As a result, numerous legal actions were launched by the parties involved. The class action suit is still pending.  Marc Rich and Denise Rich Among Black's many high-profile friends was Denise Rich, US socialite and ex-wife of Marc Rich. Marc Rich, a former associate of Black, gained notoriety in 2001 when he received a controversial presidential pardon from then US President Bill Clinton on charges of tax evasion. Black went on to sue Denise Rich for breach of contract as she had never paid him for what she thought was free advice from a friend.  The case is ongoing.  "Eric and Lola" Black was also involved in a landmark case of the economic rights of common-law partners in Quebec. "Eric and Lola" as they are known in the press due to a publication ban in Quebec, met in 1992 when Eric, then 32, was vacationing in Brazil. They began a relationship and Lola, then 17, soon moved to Quebec to be with him. After ten years together (making them a common law couple in Quebec) and three children, the relationship ended, but as they were not legally married Lola was not entitled to usual spousal support  that would have been provided for her under Quebec law. Although she received a house worth $2.5 million, $36 500/month in child support, a car and chauffeur, a chef, and a nanny from Eric, Black, who briefly dated Lola after their separation, encouraged her to pursue legal action against him. Lola went on to sue Eric for a $50 million lump sum and an additional $56 000/month in alimony. After losing, Black said that he would personally fund her appeal. One of Lola's lawyers, Anne-France Goldwater, went on to sue Black in order to receive $57 000 in unpaid legal fees. The Supreme Court ruled against Lola on January 25, 2013. The case is said to be precedent-setting for family law in Quebec.  Jean-Guy Hammelin and the Fonds de solidarité FTQ In December 2007, AIM announced that it would be acquire its rival in the metal recycling industry of 20 years the Société nationale de ferrailles (SNF) belonging to brothers Bernard and Jean-Guy Hammelin for $64.2 million ($4.2 million of which would be held for three years). After the acquisition Black claimed that the SNF had cashed in substantial operating losses and that he was unaware of such losses at the time he acquired the company. In 2011 he demanded more than $15 million in compensation for that, and among other "irregularities", Black accused Jean-Guy and the FTQ of hiding financial information, misrepresentation, and destroying documents. Black also said that Hamelin sold him SNF knowing that part of the Laval facility did not meet municipal zoning regulations and the Protection of Land and Agricultural Activities Act, forcing him to relocate the facility and costing him $4.6 million. Hamelin denied the allegation. The defense countered that Black was aware of the financial difficulties of the SNF, so much that he put pressure on the Competition Bureau of Canada for acceptance on his bid. They also noted the eagerness of Black to buy his competitor, saying that he offered $10 million more than any other buyer. He also stated that on December 4, 2007, documents relating to finances, permits, and the list of disputes were delivered. Mr. Hamelin countersued for the $4.2 million owed and $200,000 in damages, plus interest. The case is ongoing.  Philanthropy Herbert Black is well known in Montreal as a philanthropist, having donated considerably to several organizations and causes. He has donated millions of dollars to McGill University and its Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, as well as to the Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital. He endowed the Chair of Surgical Oncology at McGill University, funding research in oncology, as well as the Herbert Black Unit for Teaching and Learning in Medicine at McGill.   == References ==

Kathleen Sullivan Alioto (born June 20, 1944) is an American educator and politician who served on the Boston School Committee as a member (1974–79) and its president (1977). She played a role in the desegregation of the Boston public schools.  Early life and education Sullivan Alioto is the daughter of Billy Sullivan, founder and long-time owner of the New England Patriots. She grew up outside Boston. She graduated from Manhattanville College. She has a doctorate from Harvard Graduate School of Education.  Boston School Committee Sullivan Alioto taught school for six years before being elected to the School Committee, first as a teacher of disabled children in Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant, then at the John Marshall School in Boston's Dorchester neighborhood, where she taught children with behavioral issues. While serving on the School Committee, Sullivan Alioto earned her doctorate at Harvard. She is credited with having been a dedicated member of the School Committee (an elected, unpaid job,) Sullivan Alioto worked full-time to improve the quality of the school. Sullivan Alioto was regarded as the "most liberal" of the five members of the Boston School Committee when, in December 1974, it voted 3-2 to refuse to comply with the order of Federal District Judge Wendell Arthur Garrity Jr. to desegregate the Boston Public Schools. At the height of the School Committee debates over whether to comply with the Federal Court order to desegregate the Boston Public Schools, in 1974 and 1975, as described in Newsday by reporter John Treen, "the argument is between Kerrigan and Sullivan. Sullivan is the most liberal of the Committee, Kerrigan the most vocally conservative. Kerrigan accuses Sullivan of questioning an appointment... Sullivan explodes." The University of Massachusetts, Boston, in a report as part of its Collaborative History of Segregation in Boston, described Sullivan Alioto as "an outsider" who "entered the Boston School Committee in 1974 and completely challenged the status quo, altering the committee for the better. ... By taking a look at Kathleen Sullivan’s role in the move to desegregate Boston Public Schools, we gain an often overlooked narrative because of how she did not quite fit in with her contemporaries at the time." Sullivan Alioto was succeeded on the school committee by her sister, Jean Sullivan McKeigue.  Later career She was a Democratic Party primary election candidate for the United States Senate in Massachusetts in 1978, finishing third. Sullivan Alioto served as executive director of the Foundation of the City College of San Francisco. In 2016, Sullivan Alioto was a member of an advisory panel that recommended that the federal Department of Education sever ties with the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools because the group was accrediting predatory and fraudulent for-profit colleges.  Personal life From 1974 to 1976, Sullivan Alioto dated the then-closeted Barney Frank. In April 1976, Sullivan Alioto's father suggested that, while she was attending a convention in San Francisco, she have lunch with former San Francisco Mayor Joseph Alioto. She and Alioto married in 1978 and remained together until his death in 1998. Because Alioto was divorced, the wedding was performed by excommunicated Catholic priest and activist Joseph O'Rourke. Sullivan Alioto has two children, Patrick Joseph Sullivan Alioto and Domenica Alioto.   == References ==

Sydney Cross Harland  (1891–1982) was a British agricultural botanist with considerable international experience. His area of expertise was especially in the growing of cotton.  Early life and education Sydney Cross Harland was born in Snainton in Yorkshire on 19 June 1891, the son of Erasmus Harland and his wife Eliza. He was educated at the municipal secondary school in Scarborough, North Yorkshire. He studied Sciences with a focus upon Geology at King's College London graduating BSc in 1912 and gaining a doctorate (DSc) in 1919.  Career In 1922 he left Britain to take up a teaching role in the Danish-owned island of St Croix (now part of the US Virgin Islands). In 1923 he became Professor of Botany at the Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture in Trinidad and Tobago. In 1926 he also became Director of the Cotton Research Station in Trinidad, continuing in this role until 1935. In 1940 he moved to Peru as Director of the Institute of Genetics within the National Agricultural Society of Peru. He returned to Britain in 1949 as a Reader in Botany at the University of Manchester being made the George Harrison Professor of Botany at the University of Manchester the following year, 1950, and retaining this post until 1958, when he was subsequently made an emeritus professor. He was made a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1943. In 1951 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Claude Wardlaw, Herbert Graham Cannon, William Black and William Robb. In 1952, a paper published by Kathleen Basford on a cross species of Fuchsia which indicated the species had existed before the separation of landmasses 20-30 million years ago, spurred him to offer her a job at the university. The two worked together at the university, including traveling to Peru together to breed maize.  Personal life He married Emily Wilson Cameron in 1915. They had two daughters, but divorced and in 1934 he married Olive Sylvia Atteck, from a wealthy Trinidad family. Their son became a Professor of Child Health in the West Indies. Another son of his is psychologist Richard Lynn. He died in Snainton on 8 November 1982.  Publications The Genetics of Cotton (1939)   == References ==

Joshua Lenz (born September 22, 1990) is a former American football wide receiver. He played college football at Iowa State, and signed with the Chicago Bears as an undrafted free agent in 2013. He spent several years in the NFL on practice squads, only ever being on the active roster with the Indianapolis Colts.  College career Lenz played for Iowa State. In 4 seasons with the Cyclones, he recorded 96 receptions for 1,213 yards and 10 touchdowns.  Professional career Pro Day Lenz (5-foot-11 1/4, 201) was not invited to the Combine, but put himself on the draft radar with forty times of 4.36 and 4.37 at the ISU Pro Day. He added a 38.5-inch vertical and 10-foot-1 broad jump.  Chicago Bears Lenz signed as an undrafted free agent with the Chicago Bears on April 28, 2013. He was mostly used as a punt returner in preseason football and was released on August 31, 2013, after totaling 7 punt returns for 60 yards and one lost fumble.  Seattle Seahawks On October 8, 2013, Lenz was signed to the practice squad of the Seattle Seahawks. He was released on October 22 to make room for Ricardo Lockette. Lenz was then re-signed to the practice squad on October 30, and was released again on November 6, this time to make room for Phil Bates.  Indianapolis Colts Lenz was signed to the Indianapolis Colts practice squad on November 11, 2013, when Da'Rick Rogers was promoted to the active roster. On January 6, 2014, Lenz was promoted to the active roster for the first time in his career. After playing in the 2014 preseason, Lenz was released and re-signed to the practice squad on August 31. Lenz was waived by the Colts on May 20, 2015.  Cleveland Browns On May 30, Lenz signed with the Cleveland Browns. On September 5, 2015, he was waived by the Browns.  Houston Texans Lenz signed to the practice squad of the Houston Texans on October 13, 2015. He signed a futures contract on January 13, 2016. On August 30, 2016, Lenz was waived by the Texans.  References External links  Iowa State Cyclones bio Indianapolis Colts bio  Career statistics and player information from NFL.com · ESPN Josh Lenz on X

Dr. Phil is an American talk show created by Oprah Winfrey and the host Phil McGraw. After McGraw's segments on The Oprah Winfrey Show, Dr. Phil debuted on September 16, 2002. On both shows, McGraw offered advice in the form of "life strategies" from his life experience as a clinical and forensic psychologist. The show was in syndication throughout the United States and several other countries. Occasional prime-time specials aired on CBS. The executive producers were Phil McGraw and showrunner Oprah Winfrey. It was a production of Peteski Productions and distributed by CBS Media Ventures. Harpo Productions co-produced the series until 2010, with Paramount Domestic Television and its successor, CBS Paramount Domestic Television, serving as secondary co-producers until 2007. It was originally distributed by King World Productions. The program was recorded before a live studio audience in Stage 29 on the Paramount Pictures lot in Hollywood, California. It was recorded from August to May with a break in December for the holiday season. On October 25, 2018, it was announced that Dr. Phil had been renewed for four additional seasons, taking the show to 2023, or the end of its 21st season, which would be confirmed to be its last in January of that year. The final episode aired on May 25, 2023.  History The Dr. Phil talk show premiered on September 16, 2002. Before starting the show, McGraw had made regular appearances as a guest on The Oprah Winfrey Show. Since September 2008, Dr. Phil has been broadcast in HDTV with a revamped look and a theme written and performed by McGraw's son, Jordan. Its tenth season premiered on September 12, 2011. Reruns of earlier episodes of the series began broadcasting on the Oprah Winfrey Network in January 2011. Since 2011, Dr. Phil has ranked as the top syndicated talk show, before that it was the second highest-rated talk show after The Oprah Winfrey Show. In October 2015, it was reported that Dr. Phil had been renewed through 2020. McGraw's advice and methods have drawn much criticism from psychotherapists as well as from laypersons. McGraw said in a 2001 South Florida newspaper interview that he never liked traditional one-on-one counseling, and that "I'm not the Hush-Puppies, pipe and 'Let's talk about your mother' kind of psychologist." In 2004, the National Alliance on Mental Illness called McGraw's conduct in one episode of his television show "unethical" and "incredibly irresponsible". McGraw's critics regard advice given by him to be at best simplistic, and at worst, ineffective. On April 13, 2008, an unnamed staffer for Dr. Phil put up 10%, or a total of $3,300 towards the $33,000 bail for 17-year-old Mercades Nichols, one of a group of eight teenage girls who beat another girl and videotaped the attack. Someone put up the remaining 90% of the bail for Nichols, who had been booked at the Polk County, Florida, jail. Theresa Corigliano, spokesperson for the Dr. Phil show said that "In this case certain staffers went beyond our guidelines," and that the producers had "decided not to go forward with the story as our guidelines have been compromised." Shelley Duvall, who was reportedly suffering from mental illness, appeared on a segment on the show in 2016. It drew significant criticism from the public, with many suggesting that Duvall's mental illness was being exploited. In the segment, she refused the offered treatment. On October 25, 2018, it was announced that Dr. Phil had been renewed for four additional seasons, for a total of 21 seasons, ending in 2023. In February 2022, around a dozen current and former employees of Dr. Phil alleged that they experienced "verbal abuse in a workplace that fosters fear, intimidation, and racism". Seven current employees also claimed that the show's guests are often manipulated and treated unethically. Attorneys for McGraw and his co-producer, Carla Pennington, categorically denied every allegation made. On January 31, 2023, CBS Media Ventures confirmed Dr. Phil would cease production of new episodes with the current season, ending its run at 21 seasons, with the final episode airing on May 25, 2023. The distributor offered a package of 'best-of' reruns a la Judge Judy (another show distributed by CBS Media Ventures) for stations to fulfill the remainder of their contracts, though for the most part, much of its affiliate base refused the package for other current-day programming options, or pushed it to graveyard slots or other sister stations, and in some markets, the reruns air on other stations entirely if not completely refused. On April 2, 2024, McGraw debuted his new show Dr. Phil Primetime out of Fort Worth, Texas on his own television network, Merit Street. Dozens of longtime Dr. Phil staffers were reported to have relocated from Los Angeles to Texas to continue working alongside McGraw. The program features more of McGraw's conservative views on education, family values and immigration.  Format The show covered a wide variety of topics including weight loss, financial planning, grief, dysfunctional families, marriage counselling, rebellious teenagers, child stars, and support for charitable causes. Guests on the show sometimes underwent polygraph tests. These tests were usually administered by retired FBI agent Jack Trimarco, who was a frequent guest on the show until he died in 2018. After Trimarco's death, he was replaced by polygraph examiner John Leo Grogan. McGraw is noted for often bringing families back on multiple shows for follow-up "therapy" sessions in his segment called "Dr. Phil Family."  Reception Ratings On May 21, 2007, the Dr. Phil show was ranked 4th by Nielsen Media Research, with 6.69 million viewers. The show was ranked 6th with 5.69 million viewers on May 12, 2008.  In May 2008, Dr. Phil was the second most popular talk show on television, after The Oprah Winfrey Show. On July 30, 2019, Dr. Phil was the top syndicated show with a 2.9 national Nielsen rating, ranking first among talk shows for the 150th consecutive week. The Dr. Phil show was the highest rated talk show in the first week of March 2020, with a 2.8 national Nielsen rating.  Accolades References External links Official website Dr. Phil at IMDb

Decide! (Decidere!) was an Italian libertarian political association established and led by Daniele Capezzone. The group was sometimes also referred to as Decidere.net, in reference to its official website. It was one of the founding members of Silvio Berlusconi's The People of Freedom party. Capezzone was later appointed spokesman of the new party.  History Decide! was launched in June 2007 by Daniele Capezzone, former secretary of the Italian Radicals and member of the Chamber of Deputies for the Rose in the Fist, before leaving both. At the beginning the association was affiliated neither to centre-left The Union, from which Capezzone hailed, nor to the centre-right House of Freedoms, but it seemed definitely closer to the latter. Capezzone himself became closer to Forza Italia's leader Silvio Berlusconi and was harshly critical of Prodi II Cabinet, which he did not support anymore. Decide! was officially presented to the public on 3 September 2007 and organized two major rallies: the first one on pensions (Rome, 22 September) and the second one on taxes (Milan, 29 September). On 7 November Capezzone finally left the Italian Radicals and the Rose in the Fist. On 12 May 2008 Capezzone was appointed spokesman of Forza Italia. A year later, after that he had led Decide! into The People of Freedom led by Berlusconi, Capezzone was appointed spokesman of the new party.  Ideology The association had a political platform based on 13 points, which included a flat tax at 20%, fiscal federalism, presidentialism and first-past-the-post electoral system, liberalizations and privatizations. The association had its focus principally on economic issues and had ties with the Bruno Leoni Institute and the Italian Liberal Party (2004).  Members Leading members of Decide! included Giovanni Orsina, Giancarlo Pagliarini, and Andrea Romano.   == References ==

José María Rosa (August 20, 1906 – July 2, 1991), also known as Pepe Rosa, was an Argentine historian, one of the most notable of the Argentine nationalist revisionist historians.  Biography Rosa was born in Buenos Aires in 1906. He studied law, later teaching history at high schools and universities. In 1938, he established in Santa Fe the Institute of Federalist Studies, studying the history of Argentina under a revisionist viewpoint. His view of the past was used to justify critics of contemporary country, and considered that there was an ongoing neglect of national authorities of national interests since the May Revolution. Those viewpoints, as well as the positive image of Juan Manuel de Rosas, were shared by all revisionists, but they were divided by the rise of the peronism. Unlike Julio Irazusta, who was anti-Perón, Rosa supported his government. His support increased when the Revolución Libertadora attempted a coup against Perón; he would join the Perónist resistance. From there, Rosa started working in the history of the Argentine population, which he saw as potentially revolutionary at times, but always oppressed by the higher classes. He saw Perónism as a revolutionary movement, capable of promoting the delayed changes in society. He supported in 1956 the failed attempt of general Valle against Aramburu. Fearing a political reaction, he moved to Uruguay and then to Spain, returning in 1958. He joined the Juan Manuel de Rosas National Institute of Historical Investigations, becoming its president several times. He was designated ambassador to Paraguay during the third government of Perón; he would resign following his death and moved to Greece. He returned during the National Reorganization Process; however, his books were banned and taken out of public libraries. He founded a magazine called Línea ("The voice of those who do not have a voice"), which was censored many times. He died on July 2, 1991. At his request, November 20 was declared National Sovereignty Day (Día de la Soberanía Nacional) in commemoration of the 1845 battle of Vuelta de Obligado. His ideas about the history of Argentina had prominent acceptance, and, according to his adherents, they are currently accepted as mainstream.  Works Más allá del código (Beyond the code) (1933) Interpretación religiosa de la historia (Religious interpretation of history) (1936) Defensa y pérdida de nuestra independencia económica (Defense and loss of our economic independence) (1943) Artigas, prócer de la nacionalidad (Artigas, leader of nationality) (1949) La misión García ante Lord Strangford (The García mission before Lord Strangford) (1951) El cóndor ciego; la extraña muerte de Lavalle (The blind cóndor; Lavalle's strange death) (1952) Nos, los representantes del pueblo (We, the people's representatives) (1955) Del municipio indiano a la provincia Argentina (From the Indian municipality to the Argentine province) (1958) La caída de Rosas (The fall of Rosas) (1958) El pronunciamiento de Urquiza (The uprising of Urquiza) (1960) Artigas, la revolución de mayo y la unidad Hispano-americana (Artigas, the May Revolution and the Hispanic-American unit) (1960) El revisionismo responde (Revisionism answers) (1964) Rivadavia y el imperialismo financiero (Rivadavia and financial imperialism) (1964) La guerra del Paraguay y las montoneras argentinas (The war of Paraguay and the Argentine montoneras) (1965) Doctores, militares e ingleses en la independencia nacional (Doctors, military and English people in the national independence) (1968) Historia del revisionismo (History of revisionism) (1968) Rosas, nuestro contemporáneo (Rosas, our contemporary) (1970) Historia Argentina (Argentine History; 13 volumes) (1970) El fetiche de la constitución (The fetish of the constitution) (1984) Análisis de la dependencia Argentina (Analysis of the Argentine dependency) (?)  Bibliography Gelman, Jorge; Raúl Fradkin (2010). Doscientos años pensando la Revolución de Mayo. Buenos Aires: Sudamericana. ISBN 978-950-07-3179-9. Jose Maria Rosa. Historia del revisionismo y otros ensayos. Editorial Merlín, Buenos Aires, 1968.  References External links  (in Spanish) Biography Argentine historian José María Rosa Archived 2014-03-29 at the Wayback Machine

Joanna Pickering is a British-born actress and playwright. She is known for her Trilogy Truth, Lies and Deception, her acting work in Pelleas starring alongside Alice Eve, and is represented by 3 Arts Entertainment.  Early life Pickering was born in Northumberland, England. She was awarded an academic scholarship and studied at La Sagesse School. She was top in her exams and gained 10 A to A* at GCSE. She was accepted into Central High School and studied mathematics, physics, chemistry, and general studies A levels. She graduated from University of Stirling with a Bachelor of Science degree in pure mathematics. After turning down a job in banking, she worked in Southern France selling yachts and high performance cars to fund acting school. She trained in method acting in stage and film at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute in New York City.  Career Early acting Pickering began her acting career working in low-budget, cult, avant-garde, and experimental film. She worked as a fashion model while taking bit roles in UK television, such as the Chris Morris show Nathan Barley, radio plays and theatre work. She performed a minor role in the British comedy Svengali. In 2013, Pickering was cast as the principal role in an adaptation of the novel Mersey Boys centered around The Beatles, and in its Off-Broadway play. However, the film ran out of post-production budget. In 2014, filming on location in Berlin, Pickering portrayed the dada artist, Elsa von Freytag-Loringhoven. The film contributed to The Filmballad of MamaDada screening at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City as a directorial collective film about von Freytag-Loringhoven. It had a world premier at Copenhagen International Film Festival. Pickering then had a supporting role in Leave Yourself Alone selected for the 2016 Anthology Film Archives Theater in New York City and released on VOD and Amazon Prime in 2017.  Acting 2017–present In 2018, Pickering was cast for stage in Eve Ensler's The Vagina Monologues performing in New York to raise money for V-day organization. In 2018, she performed on stage as Shakespeare's Lady Macbeth sponsored by Pittsburgh Shakespeare in Park in a televised series due for US Public-access television, as featured in British Shakespeare magazine. In 2018, Pickering was cast in a principal role in Pelleas co-starring alongside Alice Eve and Benn Northover and directed by film maker Josephine Meckseper. The actors perform an adaptation of Maeterlinck's play from the Claude Debussy's opera. In May 2018, Pelleas screened at Whitney Museum of American Art in The Incomplete history of Protest exhibition.  In 2019, she completed shooting in a principal role co-starring alongside Blanche Baker and William Sadler in a 1950s thriller Alice Fades Away with a United States theatrical release for 2020. Pickering also filmed a day player role, as Mary, in Danny Boyle's executive produced movie Creation Stories]. In 2021, Pickering performed two lead roles on stage in her own trilogy in Paris.  Reviews were positive and that she played her role with "depth and sophistication." Pickering won best actress in an independent film at Los Angeles Film Awards for her work on Diva. The film also won best film and best director.  Writing Pickering first performed her own creative writing airing on live radio for The Fall of Babylon show on Resonance FM in London. She self-published her diaries from traveling nomadically between 2009 and 2012 under a pen name. Her pen name was exposed in press in 2012 and Pickering announced on her website she had removed her writing from the public domain. Pickering was selected for The Women in Film challenge as screenwriter. Her short film Boardwalk was made with an all female cast and crew. It screened at Anthology Film Archives Theater, September 2018. It was described as "sensational, fluid and beautiful". It was nominated as best film and best mystery thriller at NY Web Fest in 2019. In 2018, her short play Beach Break was selected by Primitive Grace Theater to run at the Bridge Theater as part of The Duende Reading Series as a one act play. It was a 2018 official selection by ScreenCraft Stage Plays. As a radio play podcast it was selected as a top ten finalist for HBO's ITV festival broadcasting live in October 2018 with Pickering performing. It aired in UK on Resonance FM in February 2019. The full play Beach Break was awarded a scholarship from Rocaberti Writers to mentor with HBO's Kelly Edwards, in an adaptation for screen in 2021. Pickering published a Trilogy of plays, Truth, Lies and Deception with Next Stage Press. The plays released in August 2021. The plays as a trilogy first showcased at The League of Professional Theatre Women, and included Beach Break, Cat and Mouse, and Sylvie and Sly. The readings were performed with Broadway actors Dan Lauria and Caroline Aaron. The plays tackle themes of sexism, assault and ageism. Truth, Lies and Deception ran at Le Pave d'Orsay Theatre in Paris in December 2021. Pickering played a lead role alongside Robert Bradford, Koel Purie and Eugenia Kuzmina, directed by Christopher Mack and Pulcherie Gadmer. Angela Mcluskey provided music. The plays were described in Broadway World as "brave, masterful, suspenseful with comical dark interchanges." Cat and Mouse was reviewed as controversial as it approaches subject matter from a yet untouched angle. In 2022, Pickering's play The Endgame, as a 30-minute version, was developed and announced as part of the Woman's Work lab festival with The New Perspective Theatre Company to run on stage in New York City. The play takes place over a game of chess and addresses issues of reporting acquaintance rape. In October, 2022, Pickering's full play Bad Victims opened at The Courtyard Theatre, in London, directed by Erica Gould. Bad Victims released in press (Broadway world UK and OffWestEnd) as a thriller centered around sex, power, and crime. "It picks up where psychological thrillers like Promising Young Woman and Anatomy of a Scandal left off" and the writing style described as "Sarah Kane meets Noel Coward with the deviousness of Phoebe Waller-Bridge to flip a scenario on its head."  Activism In 2018, she was a participant speaker and selected film maker at United Nations for Create2030, engaging artists in Sustainable Development Goals, attending at UNNIGO 2018, and UNGA2018. She moderates the Imagine This Female Film festival, Chelsea Film Festival, and is on Female in Film panel for New York Independent Film Festival.  Music Pickering performed as the lead actress for experimental feature film Kubricks directed by Dean Cavanagh and produced by Alan McGee. She is the actress for The Band of Holy Joy in a musical feature film City of Tales. She is filmed as herself in Valerio Rocco's art film Lover's Discourse screening in museums of contemporary art. Pickering is the album cover model for The Band of Holy Joy album City of Tales released in 2015. For Spectorbullets she is the album cover model, the actress in 2010 music video Goldmine and she wrote the lyrics for the song Drop on their album released in 2012  Personal life As of August 2017, Pickering resided in New York City.  References External links  Media related to Joanna Pickering at Wikimedia Commons  Official website Joanna Pickering at IMDb

Walton Castle was a Saxon Shore Fort in the Roman province of Britannia. The fort was reused by the Normans who used it as the bailey for a castle. It stood 30 metres above sea level but was destroyed by coastal erosion in the 18th century. It was located in the village of Walton, Suffolk, now part of Felixstowe (grid reference TM32253580).  Name It is uncertain if Walton Castle is one of the Saxon Shore forts listed in the 5th century Notitia Dignitatum. It has sometimes been identified with the Portus Adurni which appears in the list. In the modern era though it has become more common to identify Portus Adurni with the Saxon Shore Fort at Porchester.  History Roman era Walton Castle was a Saxon Shore type fort, probably built in the late 3rd century. Much of our knowledge of the fort derives from an outline drawing and plan of 1623, as well as some 18th-century literary accounts. The 1623 drawings show a plan similar to Burgh Castle to the north. Forward projecting curvilinear towers are present at the corners of the fort. The walls have flint facing with brick bonding courses. The presence of forward-projecting towers with rounded corners is thought to be good evidence for a construction date contemporary with other Saxon Shore forts such as Burgh Castle and Othona. In 1722 the remains were described as:  "'Tis 100 yards long, five-foot above ground, 12 broad at each end and turned with an angle. Its composed of Pepple and Roman bricks in three courses, all round footsteps of buildings, and several large pieces of Wall cast down upon the Strand by the Seas undermining ye Cliff all which have Roman brick. At low water mark very much of the like is visible some distance in the Sea. There are two entire pillars with Balls, the Cliff is 100-foot high." In an account of 1754 the length of the west wall is given more accurately as 187 yards, and it is described as being "nine feet thick". Roman finds found in the vicinity of the fort suggest the existence of an extensive Roman settlement occupied over a long period. It was probably a vicus, and a port There may have been a second fort on a promontory around six miles south of Walton Castle. The location, on West Rocks, is now about three miles out to sea.  Viking / Saxon period According to Bede, a place called Dommoc often linked with Dunwich on the Suffolk coast was the seat of East Anglia's first bishop, Felix of Burgundy, in the 7th century,  from whom Felixstowe takes its name. There is some evidence that Walton Castle was the location of Dommoc, where there appears to have been a church dedicated to St Felix inside the walls in the 12th century.  Medieval period The fort was subsequently reused by the Normans who used it as the bailey for a castle built there by one of the Bigod earls, probably Roger Bigod who died in 1107. The castle was strengthened by Hugh Bigod, Roger's son, but was confiscated and garrisoned by Henry II in the 12th century, following Hugh's involvement in the Revolt of 1173–1174. In 1175-6 the castle was dismantled (slighted) by Henry and used in the construction of Orford Castle. It was one of at least twenty cases belonging to the rebels to be slighted in the aftermath of the conflict. The walls of the Roman fort survived this demolition, and the plan of 1623 shows ruins in the northeast corner which presumably were the remains of the castle.  Erosion and loss to the sea Although the fort was still standing in 1623, it is clear by the account of 1722 that by that date at least one wall had fallen over the eroding cliff. In Kirby's Suffolk Traveller (2nd edition, 1754) it is stated that around 1740 the west wall of the fort was still standing, but that by 1754 "the Sea hath washed away the remainder of the Foundation." When Francis Grose published his The Antiquities of England and Wales in 1786, he included a picture drawn in 1766 which shows the slumped ruins of the wall lying on the beach below the cliff. He stated that it was "only visible at near low water". In the modern era, it is said (correctly) that remnants of the walls can still be seen at some distance from the beach during exceptionally low tides at Felixstowe. The ruins of the fort are visible (May 2020) at very low spring tides when the tidal height is less than 0.2 metres. Spring tides occur on full or no moon.  In February 2024, with a tide of 0.2 metres, some ruins were visible.  See also Landguard Fort  References External links  Media related to Walton Castle, Suffolk at Wikimedia Commons St Felix Minster, Walton Castle, The Suffolk Churches Site

Maxwell Trowbridge Gail Jr. (born April 5, 1943) is an American actor who has starred on stage, and in television and film roles. He is best known for his role as Detective Stan "Wojo" Wojciehowicz on the sitcom Barney Miller (1975–1982), which earned him two consecutive Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series nominations. Gail also won the 2019 and 2021 Daytime Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role as Mike Corbin on the soap opera General Hospital.  Early life Gail was born in Detroit, Michigan, the son of Mary Elizabeth (née Scanlon) and Maxwell Trowbridge Gail, a businessman, and raised in Grosse Ile, Michigan. He has a twin sister, actress Mary Gail. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree from  Williams College, and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Michigan. Gail was later an instructor for the University Liggett School before becoming an actor. His acting debut came in 1970 for the Little Fox Theatre in San Francisco, California, playing Chief Bromden in the original stage production of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest. In 1973, he reprised this role in his New York stage debut.  Career Gail is best known for his television role as Det. Stan "Wojo" Wojciehowicz in the sitcom Barney Miller (1975–1982). Gail's best-known feature film role is in D.C. Cab (1983) as Harold, the owner of the D.C. Cab taxi company. He directed several episodes of Barney Miller as Maxwell Gail. In 1984, Gail was featured in the monodrama The Babe on Broadway. This stage play was filmed and later featured on PBS. Gail has starred in other TV series, including Whiz Kids (1983) as Llewellan Farley Jr., an investigative reporter who is friends with a group of teenaged computer hackers. He worked on the short-lived Normal Life (1990). He has appeared on the TV series Sons & Daughters (2006). Gail has made many guest appearances on TV shows such as: Walker, Texas Ranger ("Whitewater"); Cannon, Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman, Due South, The Streets of San Francisco, Paul Sand in Friends and Lovers, Murder, She Wrote, The Drew Carey Show, Hawaii Five-0, Quantum Leap, Psych,  Longmire, Gary Unmarried, NCIS, Scorpion, and Mad Men. Gail appeared as Brooklyn Dodgers manager Burt Shotton in the 2013 film 42,  about Jackie Robinson's first two years as a member of the Dodgers organization, including his first year of playing at the major-league level in 1947. Gail runs Full Circle, a production company that has featured documentaries on such subjects as Agent Orange, Native Americans, and nuclear issues. In 2015, Gail was nominated as Best Actor for his role in the short film In Memory at the Los Angeles International Film Festival. Gail stepped into the recast role of Mike Corbin on General Hospital. He debuted on February 5, 2018, and went on to win the 2019 and 2021 Daytime Emmy Award for Best Supporting Actor.  Personal life Gail's first wife, Willie Bier, died of cancer in 1986 after three years of marriage. The experience inspired Gail to be the narrator of the alternative medicine film documentary Hoxsey: When Healing Becomes a Crime (1988). They have a daughter, India. His second wife, Nan, and he have two children, Maxwell and Grace. They separated amicably in 2000. He has been in a relationship with Chris Kaul since 2007. Gail's daughter Grace Gail, who later became a model, married actor Adam Rodriguez in 2016. They have three children, including son Bridgemont Bernard Rodriguez who was born on March 16, 2020.  Selected filmography References External links Max Gail at IMDb  Max Gail at the Internet Broadway Database  Max Gail at the Internet Off-Broadway Database  Max Gail on Facebook  LAP.org

The Hardangerfjord (English: Hardanger Fjord) is the fifth longest fjord in the world, and the second longest fjord in Norway.  It is located in Vestland county in the Hardanger region.  The fjord stretches 179 kilometres (111 mi) from the Atlantic Ocean into the mountainous interior of Norway along the Hardangervidda plateau.  The innermost point of the fjord reaches the town of Odda.  Location The Hardangerfjord starts at the Atlantic Ocean about 80 kilometres (50 mi) south of the city of Bergen. Here the fjord heads in a northeasterly direction between the island of Bømlo and the mainland.  It passes by the larger islands of Stord, Tysnesøya, and Varaldsøy on the north/west side and the Folgefonna peninsula on the south/east side.  Once it is surrounded by the mainland, it begins to branch off into smaller fjords that reach inwards towards the grand Hardangervidda mountain plateau. The longest branch of the Hardangerfjord is Sørfjorden which cuts south about 50 kilometres (31 mi) from the main fjord. Its maximum depth is more than 860 metres (2,820 ft) just outside the village of Norheimsund in the middle of the fjord. Norway's third largest glacier is found on the Folgefonna peninsula, along of the Hardangerfjord. With its three parts, the Folgefonna glacier covers an area of 220 km2 (85 sq mi), and in 2005 it became protected as Folgefonna National Park. The area of the fjord is divided among several municipalities in Vestland county: Bømlo, Eidfjord, Etne, Kvam, Kvinnherad, Stord, Sveio, Tysnes, Ullensvang, Ulvik, and Voss. The total number of inhabitants living in all these municipalities along the fjord is only slightly more than 70,000 - on a total area of 8,471 square kilometres (3,271 sq mi).  History About 8,000 BC, the Scandinavian land mass started to rise up as enormous glacial ice started to melt. The lower parts of the valleys became flooded, and so created what we today know as the Hardangerfjord. The valley was originally not only made through glacial erosion but by the high pressure melting water which pushed its way beneath the ice. The history of the fjord goes far beyond its Viking history, back to the time of hunters on the surrounding mountains, and later on, farming along this fertile area which today is considered the "fruit orchard of Norway". Later the fjord became the birthplace for a large tourism influx to Norway, and in 1875 Thomas Cook started weekly cruise departures from London to the Hardangerfjord, due to its spectacular nature, glaciers, and grand waterfalls. Soon after this, many of the major waterfalls became the power source for large industries in fjord settlements such as the town of Odda.  Economy Hardangerfjord has recently seen an increase in tourism. New infrastructure was built for travelers and the location has once again become an industry for the local communities along the fjord. The fjord has good conditions for fish farming. Fish farms yearly produce more than 40,000 tons of salmon and rainbow trout which makes the Hardangerfjord one of four major fish farming regions in the world. Hardangerfjord's melt-water is also bottled at source to form the product Isklar, sold worldwide.  Geography There are many fjord arms that branch off of the main Hardangerfjord.  There are also certain sections of the main fjord that have special names.  Below is a list of the sections of the fjord and the arms that branch off them. From west to east:  Bømlafjorden (west entrance to the fjord) Børøyfjorden (branches to the north) Stokksundet (branches to the north) Bjøafjorden (branches to the south) Husnesfjorden (around the Husnes area) Onarheimsfjorden (around the Onarheim area) Lukksundet (branches to the north) Kvinnheradsfjorden (around the Rosendal area) Øynefjorden (branches to the north) Sildefjorden (around the island of Varaldsøy) Maurangsfjorden (branches to the east) Hissfjorden (around the Kysnesstranda area) Strandebarmsbukta (bay to the north) Ytre Samlafjorden (around the Norheimsund area) Fyksesundet (branches to the north) Indre Samlafjorden (around the Ålvik area) Utnefjorden (around the Utne area) Granvin Fjord (branches to the north) Sørfjorden (branches to the south) Eid Fjord (around the Eidfjord area) Osa Fjord (branches to the north) Ulvikafjorden (branches off the Osa Fjord to the northwest) Simadal Fjord (branches to the northeast)  See also List of Norwegian fjords  References External links  Media related to Hardangerfjorden at Wikimedia Commons Svein Ulvund's photo collection (Use the search feature: Hardanger)

Patrick Edmund Pery, 6th Earl of Limerick KBE, AM, DL (12 April 1930 – 8 January 2003), was an Irish peer, banker  and public servant.  Life Patrick Edmund Pery was the son of Edmund Pery, 5th Earl of Limerick, and Angela, Countess of Limerick. His mother was a daughter of the British Indian Army officer Henry Trotter. He was educated at Eton College and New College, Oxford. As he left Oxford, his father Edmund Pery, 5th Earl of Limerick, told him "You have unfortunately been born with a prefix to your name, and unless you get an equivalent number of suffixes people will assume you are a fool". So among other things he became a chartered accountant. "Pat Glentworth" (as he then was known) was an athlete and skied for the House of Lords against the House of Commons. As Lord Glentworth, he became a director of the merchant bank Kleinwort Benson, having helped during the merger of Kleinwort and Benson.  In August 1967, on the death of his father, he inherited his seat in the House of Lords and his estate in County Limerick, including the remains of Dromore Castle. In 1970, the prime minister, Edward Heath, called Limerick and asked "On the assumption that you were willing to become  member of the Conservative party, would you be prepared to serve in the government?" Limerick became Under-Secretary of State for Trade in the new Heath ministry. On the defeat of the Heath government in 1974, he became President of the Association of British Chambers of Commerce (now the British Chambers of Commerce, the BCC) in succession to Sir Robin Brooke. In that capacity Pat Limerick led the transformation of the ABCC and raised it to a level of national influence at which it was effectively competing with, and sometimes eclipsing, the much younger Confederation of British Industry. At the time the two organisations occupied the same building in Tothill Street / Dean Farrar Street in Westminster.  In its original form, the ABCC, often known as 'The 'Parliament of Commerce', dated back to 1860. After his three-year term of office with the Chambers of Commerce was completed, Lord Limerick then became Chairman of the British Overseas Trade Board 1979–1983, as well as being Chairman of the British Invisible Exports Council from 1975 to 1991.  He was chairman of the European-Atlantic Group from 1999 to 2001. He was a director of banknote printers De La Rue from 1983 to 1997, and chairman from 1993. In 1991–92 he was Master of the Worshipful Company of World Traders, one of the City of London's 110 livery companies. He was Knight President of the Society of Knights of the Round Table from 1993. He was also Honorary Colonel of The Inns of Court & City Yeomanry. On 7 September 2001, he was appointed an Honorary Member of the Order of Australia, for service to Australian-British relations.  Family Patrick Pery married Sylvia Rosalind Lush (CBE), daughter of  Brigadier Maurice Stanley Lush, on 22 April 1961. The couple had three children:  Edmund Christopher Pery, 7th Earl of Limerick (born 10 February 1963) Lady Alison Dora Pery (born  27 October 1964) Hon. Adrian Patrick Pery (born 14 June 1967)  References External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by the Earl of Limerick

The 1976 Liberty Bowl, part of the 1976 bowl game season, took place on December 20, 1976, at Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium in Memphis, Tennessee. The competing teams in the 18th edition of the Liberty Bowl were the Alabama Crimson Tide, representing the Southeastern Conference (SEC), and the UCLA Bruins, representing the Pacific-8 Conference (Pac-8). Alabama won the game, 36–6.  Teams Alabama The 1976 Alabama squad finished the regular season with a 9–3 record. The Crimson Tide opened the season ranked #6 only to lose to Ole Miss in their opening game, to eventual conference champion Georgia and to Notre Dame. Following their victory over Auburn, Alabama accepted an invitation to play in the Liberty Bowl. The appearance marked the third for Alabama in the Liberty Bowl, and their 30th overall bowl game appearance.  UCLA Entering their final regular-season game against rival USC, the Bruins were ranked #2 with their only blemish on the season coming in a tie against Ohio State. With a berth in the Rose Bowl Game at stake, UCLA was upset 24–14 resulting in the Bruins accepting a bid to play in the Liberty Bowl. The appearance marked the first for UCLA in the Liberty Bowl, and both their 8th overall bowl game and their first away from the Rose Bowl. (the Pacific-8 repealed its "Rose Bowl or no bowl" rule in 1975).  Game summary After forcing a UCLA punt on the opening possession, Alabama took a 3–0 lead on a 37-yard Bucky Berrey field goal on their first offensive possession. On the ensuing UCLA drive, Bama linebacker Barry Krauss intercepted a Jeff Dankworth pass and returned it 44-yards for a touchdown. The following kickoff was fumbled by Wally Henry of UCLA with Alabama recovering. Five plays later Johnny Davis scored on a run from two yards out and the Crimson Tide were up 17–0 after the first quarter. The only points of the second quarter came on an Alabama trick play. Jack O'Rear took the snap and tossed the ball to halfback Tony Nathan who proceeded to pass it back to O'Rear who made the reception and took it 20 yards for a touchdown and a 24–0 lead. Alabama extended their lead to 30–0 with a pair of Berrey field goals before UCLA got on the scoreboard. Theotis Brown scored the Bruins' only points on a 61-yard touchdown run. Alabama responded with their final points with only 22 seconds remaining in the game on a 1-yard Rick Watson run making the final score 36–6.  Aftermath Alabama played in five consecutive New Year's Day bowl games following its Liberty Bowl rout of UCLA. The Crimson Tide won national championships in 1978 and 1979 with Sugar Bowl victories over Penn State and Arkansas, respectively. The Tide returned to the Liberty Bowl in 1982 in what turned out to be the final game of Bear Bryant's coaching career. Alabama defeated Illinois 21-15 for Bryant's 232nd victory at his alma mater and 323rd overall. Bryant died of a massive heart attack in Tuscaloosa on January 26, 1983, at age 69, 28 days after coaching his last game. UCLA has yet to return to the Liberty Bowl. The Pacific-8 Conference, which became the Pacific-10 in 1978 with the addition of Arizona and Arizona State, did not send another team to the Liberty Bowl until 1995, when Stanford lost to East Carolina. Alabama and UCLA played a home-and-home series in 2000 at the Rose Bowl and 2001 at Bryant-Denny Stadium. The Bruins won both contests.   == References ==

Amanda Jo Weir (born March 11, 1986) is an American competition swimmer, Olympic silver medalist, world champion, and former world record-holder. She was a member of the 2004 and 2012 United States Olympic teams, winning two silver medals at the 2004 Games and a bronze medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay at the 2012 Summer Olympics and a silver medal in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay at the 2016 Summer Olympics.  Career Born in Davenport, Iowa, Weir started swimming while the family lived in Apple Valley, Minnesota. Weir holds many of the sprint freestyle age-group records for USA Swimming, setting her first record at age 12 in the 50-yard freestyle in 23.17 seconds. She attended Brookwood High School in Snellville, Georgia, and led the Brookwood swim team to four consecutive Georgia Class 5A state championships. At the 2004 Summer Olympics, Weir swam the third leg for the U.S. team in the women's 4×100-meter freestyle relay. Leading after her leg of the relay, the U.S. team finished second to the Australians, setting an American record with their finishing time. Weir also earned a silver medal by swimming in the preliminary heats of the 4×100-meter medley relay and helping her team qualify for the final. Weir enrolled as a freshman at the University of Georgia in 2004, where her team dominated the 2005 NCAA championships; Weir anchored four of the unprecedented five winning Georgia relay teams. She was recognized as the Atlanta Amateur Athlete of the Year for 2005. Weir left the University of Georgia after her first year and transferred to the University of Southern California in 2006. After a single semester at USC, Weir decided to end her college swimming career to begin swimming professionally. At the 2006 ConocoPhillips USA Swimming National Championship, Weir broke the American record in the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 53.58. At the 2012 United States Olympic Trials in Omaha, Nebraska, Weir made the U.S. Olympic team for the second time by finishing fifth in the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 54.41, which qualified her to swim in the 4×100-meter freestyle as a member of the U.S. relay team. At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, she earned a bronze medal as a member of the U.S. team in the women's 4×100-meter freestyle relay. In 2016, she won a silver medal at the Olympic Games in the 4×100-meter freestyle relay.  Relation to Burl Ives Amanda Weir is the great niece of Burl Ives.  See also List of Olympic medalists in swimming (women) List of Pan American Games records in swimming List of United States records in swimming List of University of Georgia people List of University of Southern California people List of World Aquatics Championships medalists in swimming (women) World record progression 4 × 100 metres medley relay  References External links Amanda Weir  at World Aquatics  Amanda Weir at Olympics.com Amanda Weir at Olympic.org (archived)  Amanda Weir at Olympedia  Amanda Weir at USA Swimming (archived June 2, 2021) Amanda Weir at Team USA (archive October 1, 2022) Amanda Weir – University of Southern California athlete profile at USCTrojans.com at the Wayback Machine (archived August 26, 2012)

Charles Hendrickson Lewis (April 25, 1871 – January 2, 1965) was an American politician who served as the 38th lieutenant governor of Ohio from 1925 to 1927.  Biography Charles Hendrickson Lewis was born April 25, 1871, at Egypt, Pitt Township, Wyandot County, Ohio. His father organized and was manager of the Harpster Bank in Harpster, Ohio. Charles' mother died when he was three years old, and he grew up in Harpster, attending the public schools. He graduated from the music department of Ohio Northern University in 1889. He was a trustee of the university, and was awarded an honorary degree in 1927. He taught school for two years, and entered Ohio Wesleyan University. He graduated Bachelor of Science in 1895, and worked in his father's bank for thirty years until 1925. Lewis was elected lieutenant governor of Ohio in 1924. At that time, the governor and the lieutenant governor were elected separately, and Lewis (a Republican) served with Democratic Governor A. Victor Donahey. They got along amicably, and Lewis represented the state at the inauguration of Calvin Coolidge in 1925. He was also dispatched to lead an official inspection of the locks and dams of the Ohio River. Lewis was president of the school board in Harpster for 25 years, and president of the county board of education for ten years. He also was president of the Lewis Bank and Trust Company in Upper Sandusky, Ohio, and owned the company that published the Daily Union in Wyandot County. He farmed more than 1000 acres, raising Shorthorn cattle and Poland China Hogs. Lewis also ran Lewis Systems Inc., a research organization in Columbus, Ohio, and had more than seventy United States patents for treatment of polluted water. Lewis was a Mason, an Odd Fellow, a Phi Delta Theta, and Kiwanis. He was married June 30, 1896, to Frances E. Sears, who died in 1932. Their child died the day he was born. Charles Lewis died in 1965, and is interred at Oak Hill Cemetery in Upper Sandusky, Ohio.   == References ==

El Puig (Valencian pronunciation: [el ˈputʃ]), officially El Puig de Santa Maria since 2012 (also known as El Puig d'Enesa or El Puig de Cebolla), is a village situated 15 km north of the city of Valencia in the comarca of Horta Nord, Spain. Its name means "hill" in Valencian). The municipality comprises three main areas, the first being the village itself, which is dominated by a monastery, and two large wooded hills next to it, the largest of which has the ruins of a castle fortress at the top. Originally, however, there was another hill named La Pedrera (i.e. the Stone Quarry) which disappeared gradually during the 20th century to make way for the V-21 motorway, with the rock being used to construct one of the jetties at Valencia's port. The second section is the coastal area of 4 km of beach with eight housing developments that are generally only inhabited in the summer; and finally, there is an industrial park located between them. The village is well connected, with direct access to the V-21 Valencia to Barcelona motorway and a short distance away from the A-7 Valencia bypass.  There is also the Renfe C-6 Valencia to Castellón de la Plana local train service from the village every half hour, and an hourly bus service to Valencia via El Puig beach.  Economy Until very recently the economy has basically been agriculture; however, it is in a state of gradual transformation towards an industrial plan, which is fundamentally based on the metal industry. The types of agriculture in El Puig include cattle, poultry, pig farming, corn and other crops but by far the main economic income is through the cultivation and export of oranges. The industrial sector has a number of sheet metal factories, food processing plants, wood product manufacturers, a beer and ionized water manufacturer and many other trade sector related activities. The fishing industry has disappeared but its beaches are now very much in demand in the summer with its residential urbanisations. There are two areas indicated for future housing development in El Puig; the first is located to the north of the village, where there are plans for approximately 1,200 homes, that have started to be built, and is the location of a new secondary school that has been constructed. The second is near the coastal area close to the beaches, where 6255 houses and apartments are planned to be built around a golf course; planning permission was finally granted in 2009; however, construction has yet to start.  History It is thought El Puig has been inhabited since pre-historic times, but the first recorded record is of a Muslim fortress situated on the montaña la pata (foot mountain). El Puig was conquered by El Cid in 1093 on the way to his conquest of Valencia; however, it was briefly retaken by the Muslims. El Puig became a symbolic location for Valencians when it was conquered for good by James I of Aragon in 1237 at the Battle of the Puig. The reason the largest hill was named montaña la pata (foot mountain) was, as the legend goes, that when James I of Aragon reached the summit with his horse they saw the city of Valencia in the distance, the horse then reared up on to its two back legs with excitement and brought its two front feet down with such force that water sprang from the ground and one of its horse shoes became imbedded into the hill. A symbol of the reconquest is represented by the Virgin of El Puig. An Marian image, which according to legend, was seen by James I, and which granted Christians the ability to defeat the Moors and retake Valencia. Thus James I proclaimed this image of the Virgin Mary as the patron of the newly conquered Kingdom of Valencia, during this time El Puig was known as the spiritual capital of the kingdom. In 1240 the El Puig was donated to Arnau de Cardona. However, in 1340 Peter IV of Aragon gave it to Pedro de Jérica, and then in 1353 to Nicolau Janvila. Finally in 1385 the king sold El Puig to Pedro de Centelles. El Puig was separated from La Pobla de Farnals in 1608 and the last territorial lords were the Marquess of Belgium and the Municipality of Valencia.  Local festivals January - Last weekend in January is the festival of Peter Nolasco, the founder of the Order of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Mercy. It is common in this town during this festival to throw dead rats at other people.  February - The second Sunday of February is the festival of Saint Anthony the patron of animals. March - The fire festival "Las Fallas" is celebrated from 14 to 19 March. June - On the evening of 23 June are the fires of Saint Joan where, on the beaches, bonfires and firework displays are held. August - The San Roque Festival is held between the 15 and 17 of August but in reality is celebrated for the whole of the month. The celebrations mainly consist of street parties followed by bull runs in the streets of the village. September - On the first Sunday and Monday of the month of September the people of El Puig celebrate the festival of the Virgin which comprises street processions of the virgin of Puig. October - The Valencian Community day is held on 9 October.  Gallery References External links  El Puig Local Council

Alfred E. Mann (1925 – February 25, 2016), also known as Al Mann, was an American physicist, inventor, entrepreneur, and philanthropist.  Early life and education Mann was born and raised to a Jewish family in Portland, Oregon. His father was a grocer who emigrated from England; his mother a pianist and singer who immigrated from Poland.  Business In 1956, Mann founded Spectrolab, the first of his aerospace companies.  While at Spectrolab, an electro optical systems company, he also founded Heliotek, a semiconductor company, that became a major supplier of solar cells for spacecraft.  Among other accomplishments during his tenure, Mann's companies provided the electric power for over 100 spacecraft and constructed one of the lunar experiments.  Although he sold both companies to Textron in 1960 (merged into one, Spectrolab is now a subsidiary of Boeing Satellite Systems), he continued to manage them until 1972.  After he left those companies to found Pacesetter Systems, which focused on cardiac pacemakers, he sold that company in 1985 and managed it until 1992.  It is now a part of St. Jude Medical.  Mann then went on to establish MiniMed (insulin pumps and continuous glucose devices, now owned by Medtronic) and Advanced Bionics (neuroprosthetics, now focused on cochlear implants and owned by Sonova, while its pain management and other neural stimulation products are now owned by Boston Scientific). At the time of his death, Mann was involved in several companies, including:  founder and chairman of Second Sight Medical Products, a biomedical company which produces the Argus retinal prosthesis; founder and chairman of Bioness, a company devoted to applying electrostimulation for functional neural defects such as paralysis; founder and chairman of the Board of Quallion, LLC, a company producing high reliability batteries for medical products and for the military and aerospace industries; Chairman of Stellar Microelectronics, an electronic circuit manufacturer for the medical, military and aerospace industries; Mann also chaired the Southern California Biomedical Council (SCBC or SoCalBio), the trade association that has represented and promoted the growth of biotech, medtech and digital health industries in the Greater Los Angeles region. In June 2014, the US Food and Drug Administration approved MannKind Corporation's application for a unique inhalable insulin (Afrezza) for the treatment of diabetes.  Mannkind subsequently licensed the device to a French pharmaceutical company, Sanofi, for US$925 million.  Mann was chairman of the board of MannKind Corporation, a biomedical company, where he also served as chief executive officer until January 12, 2015. In November 2015, Hakan Edstrom stepped down as CEO and president and will remain until July, 2017 to provide other services for the company.  Mann again stepped in as interim CEO. Mann also served on the board of directors and was the largest investor in Eclipse Aviation Mann was one of the main investors in the development of Mulholland Estates, a gated community in Los Angeles.  Philanthropy Mann established Alfred E. Mann Institutes for Biomedical Engineering at the University of Southern California (USC), known as AMI/USC ($162 million); at Purdue University known as AMI/Purdue ($100 million); and at the Technion known as AMIT ($104 million) are business incubators for medical device development in preparation for commercialization. The Institutes are essentially fully funded.  Three other universities were in late stage discussions as of 2006.  AMI was founded in 1998 when Alfred Mann made his first $100 million gift to USC, a major private research university in Los Angeles.  The total gifted endowment for AMI/USC is $162 million since then. The Alfred Mann Foundation for Biomedical Engineering is charged with selecting, establishing and overseeing the institutes, similar to AMI at USC and at other research universities. Mann was a Life Trustee of the University of Southern California. Founded in 1985, the Alfred Mann Foundation has several core aims.  It aims to work with scientists and research organizations to find bionic solutions for people suffering from debilitating medical impairments. As an alumnus of UCLA, he tried to make a substantial monetary gift to his alma mater to fund a bioengineering institute. However, the donation failed over Mann's desire to retain control over patents and patent revenues generated by the institute. The $162 million gift eventually went to USC, a private institution that agreed to his terms. On March 16, 2007, Purdue University received a $100 million endowment from the Mann Foundation for Biomedical Engineering. The endowment was the largest research gift ever at the university and created the Alfred Mann Institute at Purdue. However, AMI Purdue was closed and the unspent portion of the $100 million endowment from the MANN Foundation was rescinded in early 2012.  Personal life Mann was married four times and had seven children. His first wife was Beverly Mann. They divorced in 1957 His second wife was Linda Mann. They divorced in 1973. His third wife was Susan Kendall; they divorced in 1997. In 2004, he married his fourth wife, Claude Mann. Mann died on February 25, 2016, of natural causes in Las Vegas, Nevada at the age of 90.  Recognition 2000, Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement 2003, Business Journal's Los Angeles Business Person of the Year 2011, MDEA Lifetime Achievement Award  References External links Alfred E. Mann Foundation

In probability theory, a Cauchy process is a type of stochastic process.  There are symmetric and asymmetric forms of the Cauchy process.   The unspecified  term "Cauchy process" is often used to refer to the symmetric Cauchy process. The Cauchy process has a number of properties:  It is a Lévy process It is a stable process It is a pure jump process Its moments are infinite.  Symmetric Cauchy process The symmetric Cauchy process can be described by a Brownian motion or Wiener process subject to a Lévy subordinator.  The Lévy subordinator is a process associated with a Lévy distribution having location parameter of                         0                 {\displaystyle 0}     and a scale parameter of                                    t                        2                                        /                  2                 {\displaystyle t^{2}/2}    .  The Lévy distribution is a special case of the inverse-gamma distribution.  So, using                         C                 {\displaystyle C}     to represent the Cauchy process and                         L                 {\displaystyle L}     to represent the Lévy subordinator, the symmetric Cauchy process can be described as:                         C         (         t         ;         0         ,         1         )                  :=                  W         (         L         (         t         ;         0         ,                    t                        2                                        /                  2         )         )         .                 {\displaystyle C(t;0,1)\;:=\;W(L(t;0,t^{2}/2)).}     The Lévy distribution is the probability of the first hitting time for a Brownian motion, and thus the Cauchy process is essentially the result of two independent Brownian motion processes. The  Lévy–Khintchine representation for the symmetric Cauchy process is a triplet with zero drift and zero diffusion, giving a Lévy–Khintchine triplet of                         (         0         ,         0         ,         W         )                 {\displaystyle (0,0,W)}    , where                         W         (         d         x         )         =         d         x                    /                  (         π                    x                        2                             )                 {\displaystyle W(dx)=dx/(\pi x^{2})}    . The marginal characteristic function of the symmetric Cauchy process has the form:                         E         ⁡                                 [                                        e                        i             θ                            X                                t                                                                                 ]                             =                    e                        −             t                            |                          θ                            |                                          .                 {\displaystyle \operatorname {E} {\Big [}e^{i\theta X_{t}}{\Big ]}=e^{-t|\theta |}.}     The marginal probability distribution of the  symmetric Cauchy process is the Cauchy distribution whose density is                         f         (         x         ;         t         )         =                                 1             π                                        [                                       t                                                   x                                        2                                                     +                                    t                                        2                                                                                      ]                  .                 {\displaystyle f(x;t)={1 \over \pi }\left[{t \over x^{2}+t^{2}}\right].}  Asymmetric Cauchy process The asymmetric Cauchy process is defined in terms of a parameter                         β                 {\displaystyle \beta }    . Here                         β                 {\displaystyle \beta }     is the skewness parameter, and its absolute value must be less than or equal to 1.  In the case where                                    |                  β                    |                  =         1                 {\displaystyle |\beta |=1}     the process is considered a completely asymmetric Cauchy process. The Lévy–Khintchine triplet has the form                         (         0         ,         0         ,         W         )                 {\displaystyle (0,0,W)}    , where                         W         (         d         x         )         =                                 {                                                                A                                        x                                            −                       2                                                                              d                   x                                                                          if                                       x                   >                   0                                                                                   B                                        x                                            −                       2                                                                              d                   x                                                                          if                                       x                   <                   0                                                                                               {\displaystyle W(dx)={\begin{cases}Ax^{-2}\,dx&{\text{if }}x>0\\Bx^{-2}\,dx&{\text{if }}x<0\end{cases}}}    , where                         A         ≠         B                 {\displaystyle A\neq B}    ,                         A         >         0                 {\displaystyle A>0}     and                         B         >         0                 {\displaystyle B>0}    . Given this,                         β                 {\displaystyle \beta }     is a function of                         A                 {\displaystyle A}     and                         B                 {\displaystyle B}    . The characteristic function of the asymmetric Cauchy distribution has the form:                         E         ⁡                                 [                                        e                        i             θ                            X                                t                                                                                 ]                             =                    e                        −             t             (                            |                          θ                            |                          +             i             β             θ             ln             ⁡                            |                          θ                            |                                         /                          (             2             π             )             )                             .                 {\displaystyle \operatorname {E} {\Big [}e^{i\theta X_{t}}{\Big ]}=e^{-t(|\theta |+i\beta \theta \ln |\theta |/(2\pi ))}.}     The marginal probability distribution of the asymmetric Cauchy process is a stable distribution with index of stability (i.e., α parameter) equal to 1.   == References ==

Ultimate Yanni is a compilation album by keyboardist and composer Yanni, released on the BMG Heritage label in 2003. The album peaked at #1 on Billboard's "Top New Age Albums" chart in 2004 and at #74 on the "Billboard 200" in 2003.  Background This album collects the highlights of Yanni's best-selling albums including Optimystique,  Reflections of Passion, Dare to Dream, In My Time and a special version from his live album Live at the Acropolis. This is a remastered recordings.  Critical reception In a review by Heather Phares of AllMusic, "The most complete retrospective of Yanni's work since Devotion: The Best of Yanni in 1997 and The Very Best of Yanni in 2000, Ultimate Yanni comes close to living up to its title. The double-disc, 24-track set features digitally remastered versions of definitive songs like "Marching Season", "To the One Who Knows", "Reflections of Passion", "Aria", "Santorini" and "Flight of Fantasy", and also includes tracks from his earliest albums as well as his compositions for the Olympics, Tour de France, and Wide World of Sports."  Track listing Disc 1  Disc 2  Production Compilation Produced by Rob Santos Compiled by John Dilberto Mastered by Elliott Federman at Saje Sound, NYC Product Manager: John Hudson Design: Smay Vision Photography: Lynn Goldsmith Project Coordination: Laura Dorson, Jeremy Holiday, Stephanie Kika, Sue Raffman and BettyAnn Rizzo Thanks to Stacey Bain, Josie DiChiara, Joe DiMuro, Mandana Eidgah, Dean Haymeyer, Pete Jones, Mike Mjehovich, Alex Miller, Gary Newman, Steve Orselet, Stuart Pressman, Roseann Rizzo, Christoper Ross, Vicky Sarro and David Weyner (Production as described in CD liner notes.)  References External links Official Website Ultimate Yanni at AllMusic

Agha Baji Javanshir (Persian: آغابیگم جوانشیر) was an Iranian poet and public speaker, who was the twelfth wife of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar (r. 1797–1834), the Qajar shah (king) of Iran. She was the daughter of Ibrahim Khalil Khan, the governor of the Karabakh Khanate.  Biography Agha Baji was the daughter of Ibrahim Khalil Khan, the governor of the Karabakh Khanate and member of the Turkic Javanshir tribe. Her mother was Tuti Begum, the daughter of Javad Khan, the governor of the Ganja Khanate. According to Richard Tapper, Agha Baji was married to the Qajar shah (king) Fath-Ali Shah Qajar (r. 1797–1834) in 1797 after Ibrahim Khalil Khan had sent the body of the previous Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar (r. 1789–1797) to the Iranian capital of Tehran. However, the Iranian historian Parisa Sanjabi states that the marriage took place in 1779/1800, after the death of Fath-Ali Shah's wife Asiya Khanum. By marrying Fath-Ali Shah, she became his twelfth wife. She arrived to the court of Fath-Ali Shah with a retinue of more than 200 servants belonging to the nobility of Karabakh. She was also accompanied by her brother Abu'l-Fath Khan Javanshir. Despite being well-liked at court, she continued to be a virgin for unknown reasons. It has been suggested this was because Fath-Ali Shah considered her father to had a hand in Agha Mohammad Khan's death. Agha Baji received payment from the profits of Qom and its surroundings and resided in a palace next to the Imamzadeh Qasim with her family. Agha Baji died in 1832 in Qom, where she was buried. A poet and public speaker, she left a couple verses in Persian and one in Azerbaijani Turkish, demonstrating her fluency in these two languages.  References Sources Bournoutian, George (1994). A History of Qarabagh: An Annotated Translation of Mirza Jamal Javanshir Qarabaghi's Tarikh-e Qarabagh. Mazda Publishers. ISBN 978-1-56859-011-0. Bournoutian, George (2021). From the Kur to the Aras: A Military History of Russia's Move into the South Caucasus and the First Russo-Iranian War, 1801–1813. Brill. ISBN 978-90-04-44515-4. Sanjabi, Parisa (2019). "احمدخان مقدم". The Great Islamic Encyclopaedia (in Persian). Tapper, Richard (1997). Frontier Nomads of Iran: A Political and Social History of the Shahsevan. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-52158-336-7.  Further reading Davis, Dick (2019). The Mirror of My Heart: A Thousand Years of Persian Poetry by Women. Mage Publishers. ISBN 978-1949445053.

Trusteer is a Boston-based computer security division of IBM, responsible for a suite of security software.  Founded by Mickey Boodaei and Rakesh K. Loonkar, in Israel in 2006, Trusteer was acquired in September 2013 by IBM for $1 billion. Trusteer's products aim to block online threats from malware and phishing attacks and to support regulatory compliance requirements. Trusteer's malware research team aims to analyze information received from the installed base of 30,000,000 user endpoints and hundreds of organizations. Trusteer has a presence in North America, South America, Europe, Africa, Japan and China.  Products Trusteer's products aim to prevent incidents at the point of attack while investigating their source to mitigate future attacks. In addition, Trusteer allows organizations to receive immediate alerts, and to report whenever a new threat is launched against them or their customers.  Trusteer Rapport Trusteer Rapport is security software advertised as an additional layer of security to anti-virus software. It is designed to protect confidential data, such as account credentials, from being stolen by malicious software (malware) and via phishing. To achieve this goal, the software includes anti-phishing measures to protect against misdirection and attempts to prevent malicious screen scraping; it attempts to protect users against the following forms of attacks: man-in-the-browser, man-in-the-middle, session hijacking and screen capturing. On installation, Rapport also tries to remove existing financial malware from end-user machines and to prevent future infections. The client is available for multiple platforms in the form of a browser extension. As of March 2020, the Windows version supports Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, and Microsoft Internet Explorer on Windows 7 and later; while the macOS version supports Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, and Apple Safari on macOS 10.12 (Sierra) and later. Financial institutions offer the software free of charge with a view to making online banking safer for customers.  Banks which offer the software, or have offered it in the past, include Bank of America, Société Générale, Tangerine, INGDirect, HSBC, CIBC, BMO, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank), Ecobank Davivienda and First Republic Bank. Some banks which had offered the software discontinued offering it. For instance, NatWest and RBS withdrew use in January 2019, stating that "The security and fraud prevention technologies we now use provide you a higher and far broader level of protection."  Trusteer Pinpoint Trusteer Pinpoint is a web-based service that allows financial institutions to detect and mitigate malware, phishing and account takeover attacks without installing any software on endpoint devices. It allows companies concerned about online fraud or data theft to scan their Web traffic to ensure that an outside laptop or desktop that is brought into a corporate network is not infected with malware before allowing the visitor access to their Web services. Trusteer Pinpoint combines device fingerprinting, proxy detection and malware infection detection. When a user infected with malware accesses an online banking site protected by Trusteer Pinpoint Malware Detection, it identifies the infection and malware type (e.g. “User Steve is infected with Prinimalka-Gozi”), alerts the bank and flags the user's credentials as compromised. Once notified, banks can immediately contact the end user to have them install Trusteer Rapport which will remove the malware. Trusteer Pinpoint Account Takeover Detection also fingerprints the device and checks for the use of proxies.  Trusteer Mobile Fraud Risk Prevention Mobile Risk Engine aims to protect organizations against mobile and PC-to-mobile (cross-channel) attacks. The product tries to detect and stops account takeover from mobile devices by identifying criminal access attempts. It also tries to identify devices that are vulnerable to compromise by malware and those that have been infected. Trusteer Mobile Risk Engine is a web-based service that includes the Trusteer Mobile SDK, Trusteer Mobile App, Trusteer Mobile Out-of-Band Authentication, and Mobile Risk API. The combination of Mobile Risk Engine and its client-side components provides device fingerprinting for mobile devices, account takeover prevention from mobile devices, detection of compromised mobile devices, and access to a global fraudster database.  Trusteer Apex Trusteer Apex is an automated solution that tries to prevent exploits and malware from compromising the endpoints and extracting information. Apex has three layers of security: exploit prevention, data exfiltration prevention and credentials protection.  Apex protects employee credentials from phishing attacks by validating that employees are submitting their credentials only to authorized enterprise web-application login URLs. Apex also prevents corporate employees from re-using their corporate credentials to access non-corporate, public applications like PayPal, eBay, Facebook or Twitter. Apex requires users to provide different credentials for such applications, to lower the risk of credentials exposure. Trusteer Apex is targeted at the behaviors of a small group of applications, on the hypothesis that they are responsible for the overwhelming majority of exploits, namely Java, Adobe's Reader and Flash, and Microsoft Office. The technology behind Trusteer Apex does not rely on threat signatures, or on so-called "whitelists" of good applications. Instead, it watches applications as they run and spots suspicious or malicious behavior, based on knowledge of "normal" application behavior that it has refined from its large user base. Trusteer claims Apex can block both web-based attacks that are used to implant malware by exploiting vulnerable applications, and data loss due to malware infections by spotting attempts by untrusted applications or processes to send data outside an organization or connect with Internet-based command and control (C&C) networks.  Technical concerns End users have reported problems with Rapport, slow PCs due to high CPU and RAM utilization, incompatibility with various security/antivirus products and difficulty in removing the software. The consumer organisation Which? found that many members had problems due to running Trusteer Rapport, and advised against using it. They found that it could conflict with other security software, and slow or crash the Web browser. Which? emphasises that it is the bank's responsibility, not Rapport's, to protect customers' online banking, adding that online banking can be perfectly safe without Trusteer Rapport; its only benefit would be detecting a phishing site masquerading as the bank—"but plenty of other tools, including most modern browsers, can do this anyway". They clarify that the software is legitimate and respectable, but "don't feel the claims on Rapport's website add up". In a presentation given at 44con in September 2011, bypassing Trusteer Rapport's keylogger protection was shown to be relatively trivial. Shortly thereafter Trusteer confirmed that the flaw was corrected and said that even if a hacker were able to use the flaw to disable anti-keylogging functions in Rapport, other secondary security protection technologies would still be in play. Rapport software is incompatible with Windows tool Driver Verifier and may cause Blue Screen and system crash.  Blue Gem lawsuit In March 2011, Blue Gem, a rival company, filed a lawsuit against Trusteer in a California court.Trusteer has described the accusations as "baseless".  See also trustee (disambiguation)  References External links Official website Frost and Sullivan Report Reuters article BBC article

Human Computing Resources Corporation, later HCR Corporation, was a Canadian software company that worked on the Unix operating system and system software and business applications for it.  Founded in 1976, it was based in Toronto. By a description of one of its founders, HCR was a "UNIX contract R&D and technology development and marketing firm."  The company was most known for its extensive knowledge of Unix, for porting Unix to new hardware platforms, for developing compilers as part of the porting work, and for consulting and product development work on Unix.  It was a pioneer in the Unix industry and by one account was the second firm ever to commercially support Unix.  By 1990 HCR was a prominent player in the Canadian Unix scene. HCR was acquired by the Santa Cruz Operation (SCO) in 1990.  It became the subsidiary SCO Canada, Inc., which existed until 1996 when the Toronto offices were closed.  Origins at the University of Toronto Human Computing Resources was founded in 1976 by several computer scientists at, and graduates of, the University of Toronto, with the aim of creating computer graphics and systems software.  The company was privately held.    Foremost among these co-founders was Ronald Baecker, an associate professor in the Department of Computer Science and Electrical Engineering at the University of Toronto and a significant figure and pioneer in the field of human–computer interaction.  Baecker served as president of the new firm. Another co-founder was Michael Tilson, who as a graduate student of Baecker's at the University of Toronto during the mid-1970s was one of the early pioneers of Unix adoption in Canada. An additional co-founder was David Tilbrook, a student of Baecker's who had developed the interactive NewsWhole pagination system for The Globe and Mail, which became an early predecessor to desktop publishing.   Other Baecker students who later became well known in the Unix world included Rob Pike and Tom Duff, although neither worked at HCR.  Formative years Consulting and contracting The new company's offices were on  St. Mary Street, in a mid-century modern building just off Yonge Street in the Bay Street Corridor section of Toronto. Human Computing Resources initially focused on information technology consulting and contract programming jobs.  An early customer for contract work was IBM. But it also tried to establish a product business, with an effort underway by 1977 to try to market the NewsWhole newspaper layout product.  Despite newspapers seeing demonstrations of the product and liking it, they were unwilling to commit their businesses to a product from an unproven, very small software business.  In 1979 the NewsWhole product was dropped.  As Tilson said in a 1986 interview, "The company quickly discovered that the software industry was not a bed of roses." In 1978 Human Computing Resources began giving courses in the Toronto area on computers for personal use – the Commodore PET – and for business. By 1979 the new firm had begun exhibiting at the annual Canadian Computer Show and Conference in Toronto. Baecker maintained a part-time involvement in his academic career during this period.  Unix specialists Human Computing Resources began to focus on writing software for the Unix operating system, which was starting to gain a foothold outside its Bell Labs founding place.  This work began in 1979 when HCR acquired a license to resell Unix from Western Electric Co.  By one account, HCR was the second firm to support Unix commercially, following Interactive Systems Corporation in the US in 1977.   Microsoft was working on its version of Unix, called Xenix, and in 1982 engaged with the Santa Cruz Operation (SCO) in this work, with the two companies' engineers working together on improvements.  Microsoft and SCO then further engaged HCR in Canada, and a software products group within Logica plc in the United Kingdom, as part of making further improvements to Xenix and porting Xenix to other platforms.   In doing so, Microsoft gave HCR and Logica the rights to do Xenix ports and license Xenix binaries in those territories.  As a result, some of Xenix was developed by Human Computing Resources in Toronto.  The early history of Xenix has a sometimes unclear narrative, but by some accounts HCR had a greater role than just extending what Microsoft had done, as it had to take over the initial porting of the AT&T Version 7 Unix after Microsoft was unable to do so. In particular, as Baecker said in 2001 for a University of Toronto course he gave on software as a business, HCR's focus became doing "UNIX operating systems programming for hardware companies without UNIX expertise needing to bring UNIX to market quickly." As such, their customer space was in the original-equipment manufacturer (OEM) and value-added reseller (VAR) markets, including Control Data Corporation, NCR, Prime Computer, and National Semiconductor.  Tilson published a seven-page article in Byte magazine about their work on the NS16032 as a case study of doing a Unix port.  Other architectures they worked on included the Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-11 and VAX-11, Motorola 68000, Intel 8086, Zilog Z8000, PERQ workstation, and Computer Automation 4/95. This work often included establishing Unix environments and functioning compilers for the C programming language on various 16-bit and 32-bit processors.  It also stressed the portability traits, good and bad, of the C language. An employee of HCR in the early 1980s, Richard Miller, had had an especially historic role in Unix, having done, in 1977, one the first ports of Unix to a non-PDP architecture while he was at the University of Wollongong in Australia. In 1983, the trade magazine InfoWorld stated that HCR "probably has more experience porting UNIX to different architectures than anyone else." The HCR variant of Unix was branded as Unity.  Initially based on UNIX System III, it was sold on a stand-alone basis for the PDP-11 and VAX minicomputers from Digital Equipment Corporation.     Moreover, HCR had an implementation of Unity that ran on top of the VAX/VMS operating system, providing file path translations and the ability to use Unix utilities from VMS.   In addition, Unity was sold on an OEM basis for other architectures, which in 1983 included the NS16032 and the Motorola 68000.  Other products Besides Unix itself, the company was showcasing a variety of system software products.  These included a compiler for the Pascal programming language and an interpreter for the BASIC programming language.  Cross compilers from VAX Unix to the NS16032 architecture for C, Pascal, and Fortran 77 were also offered. There was a Unix-based RT-11 emulator. For operating system usability, there was the configurable HCR Menu Shell, which ran atop the standard Bourne shell and provided a more friendly and customizable interface, and the HCR/EDIT screen-oriented text editor. In addition, HCR often worked with, and did active marketing for, the Mistress relational database system, which was supported commercially by Rhodnius Ltd, another Toronto-based software firm. HCR also marketed several business applications. By 1983, UNIX Review trade publication was referring to HCR as a "well-known software vendor".  Financials By one account, HCR received funding in 1982 and 1983 from two Canadian venture capital firms, Ventures West Technologies and TD Capital Group, with the two combined ending up with 50 percent ownership of HCR; more money was subsequently raised by diluting existing shares.  By another account, HCR received $750,000 CAD from one round of venture capital funding in 1981 and $2.2 million from another round in 1984, with Ventures West Technologies being one of the firms involved. The company was profitable during some of these years.  Revenues rose from $1.3 million CAD in 1982 to $2.2 million in 1983 to $3.2 million in 1984, with Unix porting contracts with hardware manufacturers ranging from $100,000 to $1 million in size.  Some 80 percent of the company's sales came from the United States, 15 percent from Europe, and 5 percent from Canada itself.  Marketing costs were minimal since those were borne by the hardware manufacturers for selling complete systems.  There was competition, as other companies were in this area.  In addition to Interactive Systems Corporation and SCO, companies doing Unix ports or substantial work with Unix included UniSoft, Microport, and a number of smaller firms. As Unix began to penetrate into wider consciousness in the 1980s,  employees at HCR became Unix evangelists.  They were quoted in newspaper articles as the operating system became more discussed in technology circles and appeared in overseas symposiums with the likes of Unix inventors and pioneers Ken Thompson, Brian Kernighan, Samuel J. Leffler, and P. J. Plauger.  HCR gave training courses in Unix. From its Toronto offices, HCR provided Unix training courses and executive seminars on the importance and impact of Unix, and offered introductory Unix seminars at various North American cities. Between 1982 and 1985, HCR staff published a dozen articles for, or presented at conferences of, the USENIX association, and HCR hosted the Summer 1983 USENIX conference in Toronto where some 1,600 Unix users were in attendance. Overall, however, HCR did not focus on one specific mission.  In his 2001 course on software as a business, Baecker spoke of the "Three Product Strategies of HCR", and began by being critical of the time he was in charge of the company, saying that its strategy reflected his personality: "the academic, the visionary, ... go everywhere, which is to have no focus and to go nowhere".  Change in leadership In February 1984, Baecker stepped down as president of HCR, and returned on a more active basis to the faculty of the University of Toronto. He was replaced as president by Dennis Kukulsky, formerly a national sales manager with Tektronix. Baecker remained as chairman of the company. Under Kukulsky, the company sought to focus on software products that would run on Unix,   and in particular, products aimed at business users.  Indeed, the promise of producing business applications was part of what had attracted venture capital funding and part of why Kukulsky had been hired. The company was faced with a significant loss for 1985, due to increased development, sales, and marketing costs, including opening sales offices in the United States. HCR released the Chronicle Business Applications Software suite in 1985.  HCR's Chronicle included modules for general ledger, accounts payable, and accounts receivable, as well as inventory, invoicing, purchase orders, and sales and profitability analysis. This was followed by HCR's  Chariot UNIX Business Software, which sold for around $7,500 per development system.  It included the business application modules of Chronicle but more importantly contained a 4GL-like application generator to allow HCR's customers to create new business applications or tailor existing ones.  Chariot was aimed at value-added resellers (VARs) and ran on the DEC VAX, IBM PC AT, AT&T 3B, and NCR Tower.  Chariot was well received in computer industry trade shows, and some 1,500 VARs signed up for it or otherwise indicated interest. But HCR was short on both time and money and the promised delivery date of February 1986 was not met, and even had Chariot been ready for release, the company lacked the ability to market it effectively. These business products were not successful, with very little actual revenue coming in from them and substantial development costs being incurred.  Overall, Human Computing Resources went through the same tribulations as many software firms, such as a failing to accurately predict development costs and being unsure how to market products once developed.  One executive commented to the Financial Post that when it came to software, "Pricing is a black art." Baecker's course analysis spoke critically of this era of the company as well, saying that it had embodied Kukulsky's personality of "the salesman, the opportunist ... go where the money is, i.e., 4GLs for UNIX, an area in which HCR had no expertise".  Change of name and another change in leadership The fallout from the Chariot project was such that by July 1986, Kukulsky had resigned  and co-founder Tilson was president of the company.  Tilson had previously been serving as vice president of technical development.  The company's management divested itself of the business products, deciding to return its focus to system software and developers.  Staffing reductions took place as well. The changes resulted in HCR becoming profitable again, with earnings of around $100,000 on revenue of $4 million.  By 1987, the official name of the company had changed to HCR Corporation.  Principal ownership of the company was split among five venture capital investors, who together owned 70 percent of HCR.  The headquarters office had moved as well, now being located in a Bloor Street building in the Yorkville neighborhood of Toronto, a short distance from the previous site.   The firm continued to have a visible presence in the Unix industry.  Tilson gave a talk at the Unix-focused AUUG about what Unix might look like thirteen years out in the year 2000. In 1989 the Canadian branch of UniForum named Tilson the Man of the Decade for his work on Unix. The company continued to do complex Unix porting work, such as having a contract with ETA Systems to develop a C compiler and port Unix System V with Berkeley Software Distribution networking improvements to that company's ETA10 vector processor supercomputer.  Similarly, HCR had a contract with Intel to develop C and Fortran 77 compilers for the iWarp parallel computing supercomputer architecture.  HCR used the Bell Labs Portable C Compiler (pcc) as a starting point for much of this kind of work, but they had developed components of their own, such as a portable intermediate-code global optimizer that fit into the pcc scheme. The company's management made one of its focuses be on development tools. By 1989 HCR was still a vendor for a BASIC interpreter and Pascal compiler, and had added a compiler for the burgeoning C++ programming language that was based on  AT&T's Cfront.  Their advertisements for the HCR/C++ product emphasized the multiple platform packaging, documentation, and support services that came with it.  HCR was an early participant in the ISO C++ standardization effort. HCR also provided validation services and a test suite for C compilers. In 1990, HCR announced the release of the SuperTest suite, in collaboration with Associated Computer Experts (ACE) of the Netherlands, which included nearly 400,000 separate tests of C compiler conformance and quality. In addition, HCR developed and sold the Configuration Control Menu System, or CoCo.  This product was designed to manage change requests and supported a form of code review based around email available on Unix platforms.  A survey article in Software Engineering Notes pronounced CoCo an "interesting tool" that could be used in conjunction with existing Unix-based configuration management commands such as SCCS. During the Unix Wars of the late 1980s, HCR was affiliated on the Unix International side. By 1990, HCR had around 50 employees.  The company did not disclose its annual revenues at that point. In Baecker's course analysis of the company's strategic history, he summarized this period as reflecting Tilson's nature of "the technologist, the pragmatist, the realist ... go where HCR had expertise, i.e., UNIX software development tools (unfortunately, too late)".  However, Tilson's recollections revealed a more positive view: "My role as CEO was to turn the company around with greater focus on core business.  The ultimate result was to be acquired as a healthy business with a good return for shareholders and new opportunities for employees."  Acquisition by SCO The Santa Cruz Operation (SCO), an American company based in Santa Cruz, California, announced on 9 May 1990 that it was acquiring HCR Corporation.  Financial terms were not disclosed but the companies said it would be a "share swap with a multimillion dollar value."  The acquired entity would take on the name SCO Canada, Inc., and operate as an independent subsidiary company.  The office remained at the same Bloor Street address.  Tilson remained head of the operation and became a vice president of SCO. The two companies had been both allies and competitors at different times in the past, as had the software products group of Logica (which had been part of the early Xenix work, and which SCO had previously acquired in 1986). The HCR acquisition allowed SCO to improve its development tools offerings, especially for the recently released SCO OpenDesktop operating system.  SCO Canada also took over work on the existing SCO Microsoft C compiler that dated back to Xenix days; it was offered in addition to the pcc compiler as part of the SCO OpenDesktop Development System.  SCO Canada continued to sell the HCR C++ product, which by 1991 had an estimated 450 licensed sites using it, and maintained a role in the language's standardization effort. SCO Canada also took on some other work, such as looking to provide strategic partners with porting assistance to SCO Unix, and doing integration work between SCO Unix and Novell NetWare. In September 1995, it was announced that SCO was buying the UnixWare and related Unix business from Novell, which in turn had acquired it from Unix Systems Laboratories in 1993. The New Jersey office of Novell had a languages and development tools group with more advanced technology than what SCO Canada had been working with, and that made the SCO Canada engineering staff largely redundant once the Novell deal was closed in December 1995.  The SCO Canada office was shut down in early 1996.   == References ==

Vincenzo Cabianca (June 21, 1827, Verona – March 21, 1902, Rome) was an Italian painter of the Macchiaioli group.  Biography He was born in Verona in modest circumstances. He began his artistic training at the Verona Academy under Giovanni Caliari, and then studied at the Venice Academy from 1845 to 1847. An admirer of Giuseppe Mazzini, he became associated with the Young Italy movement and was taken prisoner while participating in the defense of Bologna in 1848. After his release he lived in Venice from 1849 until 1853. During the 1850s  Cabianca became acquainted with the artists, including Adriano Cecioni, Cristiano Banti, and Telemaco Signorini, who frequented the Caffè Michelangiolo in Florence, who would be known as the Macchiaioli. He became a friend of Signorini, and travelled with Signorini and Banti to Paris. His friend's influence led Cabianca to turn away from  genre paintings towards a bolder realism, beginning in 1858. Like the other Macchiaioli, he painted landscapes en plein air, but he was more reluctant than his friends were to abandon historical and literary subjects. Cabianca emphasized powerful value contrasts in his paintings. Cecioni described him as "the most declared, violent and uninhibited macchiaiolo." Angelo de Gubernatis, who termed the Macchiaioli "enemies of all conventionalism and accurate researchers of effects", described Cabianca as principally interested in the effects of sunlight. Gottardo Garollo in his Dizionario Biografico describes Cabianca as a painter of the "effects of the Sun". Many of his paintings depict nuns; a well-known example is Le monachine (The nuns; 1861–62, Turin exhibition). Other works of the 1860s include La Mandriana and il Porcile al sole (1860). Returning from travels to Tuscany and Paris in 1864, he domiciled in Parma from 1864 to 1868, then moved to Rome. Among his other works are Il bagno fra gli scogli; Sant'Angelo all' Isola di Giudecca; Reminiscenze del mare; Gondola bruna; La neve in Ciociaria; Le mura del convento; and Sotto il portico dei barattieri a Venice. At Naples in 1877, he exhibited Piccola via presso Perugia; La neve; Una casa ad Anacapri; and Reminiscenze d'Amalfi. At Rome in 1883 he displayed Rocca di Papa; Il caligo a Venice; Sul far del giorno; La pace del Chiostro; and Una sera sulla laguna.  He also painted in watercolors, including La neve a Venice, Il fait sa cour, and Sulla marina di Viareggio. The works of Cabianca's later years show the influence of the Symbolists and the Pre-Raphaelites. He died in Rome on March 21, 1902. Collections holding works by Vincenzo Cabianca include the Galleria Nazionale d'Arte Moderna, Rome, and the Brooklyn Museum.  Selected paintings References Further reading Broude, Norma (1987). The Macchiaioli: Italian Painters of the Nineteenth Century. New Haven and London: Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-03547-0 Steingräber, E., & Matteucci, G. (1984). The Macchiaioli: Tuscan Painters of the Sunlight : March 14-April 20, 1984. New York: Stair Sainty Matthiesen in association with Matthiesen, London. OCLC 70337478  External links  More works by Cabianca @ ArtNet

Glacial Lake Glendive was a glacial lake on the lower Yellowstone River. It formed in the valley of Yellowstone, during the late Pleistocene epoch south of the Keewatin Ice Sheet. As the ice sheet retreated northward, the lake drained into the modern Missouri River. Ice of the Keewatin Lobe of the Laurentide Ice Sheet advanced westward into the Missouri and Yellowstone river valleys. The Glasgow sublobe blocked the Missouri River west of present-day Fort Peck, Montana, and created Lake Jordan and glacial lakes Circle and Lambert were formed to the east. The Yellowstone lobe spread south past Intake, Montana, and formed glacial Lake Glendive. At its maximum the ice may have blocked the Little Missouri River forming glacial Lake Mikkelson.  When the ice sheet began to retreat northward, the southwestern margin of abandonment its previous drainages and lakes formed in the depression along the ice margins. Melting of the Shelby and Havre lobes in western Montana led to the retreat of the ice into Alberta. By 16,200 B.C. the ice had created glacial Lake Carmichael in the area of the Cypress Hills. By 15,700 B.C. ice-free conditions may have existed in southwestern Saskatchewan north of Havre, Montana.  References Alden, W. C., 1958, Physiography And Glacial Geology Of Eastern Montana And Adjacent Areas, U. S. Geological Survey Professional Paper 174. Colton, R. B., Lemke, R. W., and Lindvall, R. M., 1961, Glacial map of Montana East of the Rocky Mountains, U. S. Geological Survey Miscellaneous Geological Investigations Map I-327. Howard, A. D., 1958, Drainage Evolution In Northeastern Montana and Northwestern North Dakota, Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, v69, 575-588. Lemke, R. W., Laird, W. M., Tipton, M. J., and Lindvall, R. M., 1965, Quaternary Geology Of Northern Great Plains, in Wright, H. E., Jr., and Frey, D. G., Eds, The Quaternary of the United States, Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ. Lindvall, R. M., 1962, Geology Of The Eagle Buttes Quadrangle, Chouteau County, Montana, U. S. Geological Survey Miscellaneous Geological Investigations Map I-349. Thornbury, W. D., 1965, Regional Geomorphology Of The United States, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York. Trimble, D. E., 1980, The Geologic Story Of The Great Plains, Geological Survey Bulletin 1493. Wayne, W. J., Aber, J. S., Agard, S. S., Bergantino, R. N., Bluemle, J. P., Coates, D. A., Cooley, M. E., Madole, R. F., Martin, J. E., Mears, B., Jr., Morrison, R. B., and Sutherland, W. M., 1991, Quaternary Geology Of The Northern Great Plains, in The Geology of North America, Vol K-2, Quaternary Nonglacial Geology: Conterminous U. S., The Geological Society of America.  See also List of prehistoric lakes Proglacial lakes of the Missouri River Basin Lake Cut Bank Lake Chouteau Lake Great Falls Lake Musselshell Lake Jordan. Lake Circle Lake Glendive Lake McKenzie

The 1901–02 season was Blackpool F.C.'s fifth season (second consecutive) in the Football League. They competed in the eighteen-team Division Two, then the second tier of English football, finishing thirteenth. New arrivals this season included Jack Foster and William Anderton. Out had gone Jack Leadbetter, after 65 appearances for Blackpool. Geordie Anderson was the club's top scorer, with twelve goals. Two players were ever-present during the season:  Jack Scott and Jack Birchall. Bloomfield Road became Blackpool's permanent home for the start of the season.  Season review Blackpool began the season with a home game against Bristol City on 7 September. It was the visitors' first game in the Football League, and they returned south with both points after a 2–0 victory. Due to the club having no fit goalkeeper, Blackpool defender Harry Stirzaker played between the posts. Burton Wanderers were Blackpool's next opponents, at Peel Croft, and the spoils were shared in a 1–1 draw. Jack Foster, in only his second game for Blackpool, got their goal. Another away game followed, at Stockport County on 21 September. Bob Birkett scored for Blackpool, but it was in vain as the Seasiders lost 3–1. Newton Heath visited Bloomfield Road seven days later, and they took both points after a 4–2 victory. Geordie Anderson opened his scoring account for the season, netting both of Blackpool's goals. October opened with an away fixture against Glossop North End. Sammy Brookes scored for Blackpool, but Glossop were the victors, 3–1. Six games into the season, and Blackpool finally gained their first victory. It occurred against Doncaster Rovers at Bloomfield Road. Lorenzo Evans, Harold Hardman and Anderson got the hosts' goals in the 3–1 scoreline. Two draws followed — 0–0 at Lincoln City and 2–2 at home to West Bromwich Albion, Foster and Hardman striking for the Seasiders in the latter. Blackpool travelled to Barnsley on 9 November and won 2–1. Stirzaker, opening his account for the season, and Birkett secured the points for the visitors. Successive defeats against Lancashire rivals ensued — 4–1 at home to Preston North End on 23 November, and 2–0 at Burnley a week later. A victory, against Gainsborough Trinity, was achieved on 21 December, after a three-week break. Foster, Evans and Stirzaker scored Blackpool's goals in the 3–0 result at Bloomfield Road. Four days later, Blackpool returned from London with a point after a goalless draw against Woolwich Arsenal. 1901 was rounded off with a 2–1 defeat at Middlesbrough on 28 December, Jack Parkinson getting his first goal of the season for Blackpool. On New Year's Day, Blackpool welcomed Burslem Port Vale to Bloomfield Road. The home side won by a single goal, scored by Anderson, his fourth of the season. Three days later, the Seasiders returned from Bristol City pointless after a 3–0 reversal. Blackpool's stop-start season gained some consistency for the remainder of January, with three consecutive victories single-goal victories: at home to Burton Wanderers on 11 January (Parkinson), against Stockport County on 18 January, also at home (Parkinson), and at Newton Heath on the 25th (Anderson). February began with a 1–1 draw at home to Glossop North End, Edward Threlfall netting his only goal of the season for the hosts. On 8 February, Blackpool travelled to Doncaster Rovers, who exacted revenge for their 3–1 defeat back in October. Anderson, Parkinson and Anderton were on target for the visitors in their 4–3 loss. Lincoln City were the visitors to Bloomfield Road the following week, and Blackpool dispatched them with a 3–0 victory, Anderson (two) and Anderton finding the net. On 22 February, Blackpool suffered their heaviest defeat of the season, at eventual champions West Bromwich Albion. The match finished 7–2, with a double from Anderson for the visitors. Three more defeats followed — 3–1 at home to Woolwich Arsenal (Parkinson), 2–0 at Barnsley, and 1–0 at Leicester Fosse. Club secretary Tom Barcroft played in goal for Blackpool in the latter game, deputising for the absent Joe Dorrington, who missed the team's train from Lancashire. Blackpool travelled to Preston North End for the second West Lancashire derby of the season on 22 March, and the honours were shared in a 1–1 draw. Alfred Boulton scored his first and only goal for Blackpool. A win, Blackpool's biggest of the season, followed at  home to Leicester Fosse on 28 March. Anderson, Foster (two) and Parkinson were the scorers in the 4–0 scoreline. Burnley made the short trip to Bloomfield Road the very next day, and they returned to East Lancashire with a defeat. Anderton and Anderson netted Blackpool's goals in their 2–1 win. Blackpool's third game in four days ended in a 3–1 defeat at Chesterfield. Anderton scored his fourth of the campaign. On 5 April, Blackpool travelled to Burslem Port Vale and won by a single Jack Scott strike. After a goalless draw at home to Chesterfield on 12 April, Blackpool finished the season with two defeats — firstly 3–0 at Gainsborough Trinity on 19 April,1 and a week later at home to Middlesbrough, 2–0.  Table Player statistics Appearances Jack Birchall – 34 Jack Scott Edward Threlfall – 32 Geordie Anderson – 29 Joe Dorrington – 29 Harry Stirzaker – 29 Jack Foster – 28 Alfred Boulton – 27 Jack Parkinson – 27 Bob Birkett – 26 Lorenzo Evans – 23 William Anderton – 21 Harold Hardman – 14 Watty Allan – 6 John Burden – 4 Sammy Brookes – 3 W. Higginson – 3 Nicholas Gillett – 3 Tom Barcroft – 1 (as goalkeeper) Joseph Billington – 1 Players used: 20  Goals Geordie Anderson – 12 Jack Foster – 6 Jack Parkinson – 6 William Anderton – 4 Bob Birkett – 2 Lorenzo Evans – 2 Harold Hardman – 2 Harry Stirzaker – 2 Alfred Boulton – 1 Sammy Brookes – 1 Jack Scott – 1 Edward Threlfall – 1 Goals scored: 40  Transfers In Out The following players left after the final game of the previous season:  Notes ^1  Blackpool played the match with only ten players  References Calley, Roy (1992). Blackpool: A Complete Record 1887-1992. Breedon Books Sport. ISBN 1-873626-07-X.

Toronto West, also known as West Toronto, was a provincial riding that was created in Toronto, Ontario when the country of Canada was established in 1867. At the time Toronto was divided into two ridings, West Toronto and East Toronto. In 1886, these ridings were dissolved and a combined riding of the entire city was created which elected three members. In 1894 this riding was split into four parts of which Toronto West was one. It occupied the western part of the old city of Toronto. From 1908 to 1914 it elected two members to the legislature.  In 1914 the Toronto West district was abolished. The districts of Toronto East, Toronto North, Toronto South and Toronto West were replaced by  Toronto Northeast, Toronto Northwest, Toronto Southwest and Toronto Southeast,  which were constituted as two-member districts. Parkdale and Riverdale were created as single-member constituencies.  Boundaries In 1867, when the province of Ontario was established, two ridings were created to represent the city of Toronto. Toronto West was created from the city wards of St. John, St. Andrew, St. Patrick and St. George. In 1886 the riding was abolished and a single riding called Toronto, representing the entire city was created which elected three members to the legislature. The riding was re-formed in 1894. In the second incarnation, the boundaries were Lake Ontario to the south between Palmerston Avenue in the east and the city limits in the west. The northern boundary was the city limits which was formed by the Grand Trunk Railway right-of-way. In 1914, the riding was split between the new ridings - Toronto Southwest, Toronto Northwest and Parkdale.  Members of Provincial Parliament Election results 1867–1886 1894-1914 Seat A Seat B References Notes   === Citations ===

Ilketshall St John is a village and civil parish in the East Suffolk district of the English county of Suffolk. It is 2 miles (3.2 km) south-east of the market town of Bungay and is part of a group of parishes with similar names known collectively as the Saints. The parish is sparsely population and is estimated to have a population of between 40 and 50. It has an area of 3 square kilometres (1.2 sq mi) and borders the parishes of Bungay, Mettingham, Shipmeadow, Ilketshall St Andrew, Ilketshall St Lawrence and Ilketshall St Margaret. The A144 road between Bungay and Halesworth runs through the parish, passing just south of the parish church. Other than the church there are no local services. Mettingham Castle is just to the north of the parish.  History At the Domesday survey Ilketshall was recorded as a single settlement with a population of 82 households in Wangford Hundred. Most of the land was held by Hugh d'Avranches, Earl of Chester. The parish church, which is dedicated to St John the Baptist, was established during the 13th century by Sir James de Ilketshall. The church became part of the holdings of Bungay Nunnery in 1267 when Sir James failed to repay a loan to the nuns. A motte-and-bailey castle, known as The Mount, is located in the east of the parish. This has a series of well preserved earthworks and is a scheduled monument. The parish has always been sparsely populated. At the 1841 census it had a population of 71. This rose to 87 at the 1881 census and declined during the 20th century, reaching less than 50 by the end of World War II. During the 1850s, The young Prince of Wales, Prince Albert Edward, the future King Edward VII, lived in the rectory where he was tutored by Charles Féral Tarver, at the time the rector of the parish church.  St John's Church The parish church is dedicated to John the Baptist and dates from the 13th-century. It is a Grade II* listed building and features a 15th-century tower and octagonal font. A window containing 13th-century glass remains, whilst a large stained glass window was donated by the future Edward VII in 1861. The church was restored in 1860, with the work paid for by the Royal Family.  Notes   == References ==

Joan Marie Finney (née McInroy; February 12, 1925 – July 28, 2001) was an American politician who served as the 42nd governor of Kansas from 1991 to 1995. Prior to her tenure as governor, Finney served four terms as the Kansas state treasurer from 1975 to 1991. Finney was the first woman to hold either office.  Early life Finney was born Joan Marie McInroy in Topeka, Kansas. She was the daughter of Leonard and Mary Sands McInroy. Her father abandoned the family shortly after her birth. McInroy graduated from high school in Manhattan, Kansas in 1942. In 1957, she married Spencer Finney, Jr. The Finneys had three children: Sarah "Sally" Finney Timm, Richard Finney, and Mary Finney Holladay. In 1978, Finney graduated from Washburn University with a bachelor's degree in economic history.  Early political career From 1953 to 1969, Finney served on the staff of Republican U.S. Senator Frank Carlson. From 1970 to 1972, she served as Commissioner of Elections for Shawnee County, Kansas. In 1972, she was an unsuccessful candidate in the Republican primary for a U.S. House seat in Kansas's 2nd congressional district. She also served as a special assistant to Topeka Mayor Bill McCormick from 1973 to 1974. After switching her political affiliation from Republican to Democrat, Finney served as Kansas State Treasurer from 1975 to 1991. She was the first woman to hold that position.  Governorship In the 1990 Democratic primary for governor of Kansas, Finney upset former Governor John W. Carlin. She then went on to defeat incumbent Republican Mike Hayden in the general election, becoming the first woman in U.S. history to defeat an incumbent governor in a general election. In addition to being the State of Kansas's first female governor, Finney was the first Roman Catholic governor of Kansas. She was known for her pro-Native American stances and was one of the few anti-abortion Democratic governors of her time. Finney served only one term as governor, retiring after the 1994 election.  Post-governorship In 1996, Finney ran for United States Senate. She was defeated in the Democratic primary by Jill Docking, who gained 74% of the primary vote, and subsequently lost the general election to Sam Brownback. Finney died in 2001 from complications of liver cancer at St. Francis Hospital in Topeka. She is buried in Mount Calvary Cemetery in Topeka.  See also List of female governors in the United States  References External links Joan Finney at Find a Grave Publications concerning Kansas Governor Finney's administration available via the KGI Online Library Appearances on C-SPAN

6.1 is the sixth studio album by Out of the Grey, released on August 15, 2001. It was their first (and only) on Rocketown Records, after leaving Sparrow. The duo saw the new album as an opportunity to redefine themselves as a band, and this hope is reflected in the album's name, 6.1. In an interview, the Dentés said "This time around, we were told to forget about the mentality of trying to write a certain way. It's been a long time since we've been able to let go and feel the freedom to do what we like and be what we want to be." Although the album gained favorable reviews, it would be their last as a band until 2015.  Track listing All songs written by Christine and Scott Denté, except where noted.  "Shine Like Crazy" – 4:31 "Truth Breaks Through" (Monroe  Jones) – 3:53 "Brave" – 3:07 "What's It Gonna Be" – 3:08 "With All My Heart" – 3:06 "Waiting" – 3:07 "Tell Your Story" – 3:33 "Out of the Ordinary" (Chris Donohue, Ken Lewis) – 3:54 "The Words" – 2:57 "I Want Everything" – 3:56 "Grace, Mercy and Peace" – 7:28 source:  Personnel Out of the Grey  Christine Denté – vocals Scott Denté – guitars, vocals Additional personnel  Jeff Roach – keyboards, drums Gary Burnette – guitars Mark Hill – bass Greg Herrington – drums Dan Needham – drums Ken Lewis – percussion Production  Monroe Jones – producer Don Donahue – executive producer Jim Dineen – engineer at The Bennett House, Dark Horse Recording and Screaming Baby, Franklin, Tennessee; Rack N Roll, Nashville, Tennessee David Streit – assistant engineer Tom Laune – mixing at Bridgeway Studios, Nashville, Tennessee Hank Williams – mastering at MasterMix, Nashville, Tennessee Jamie Kiner – production coordinator Jimmy Abegg – image coordinator, photography Karrine Caulkins – art direction Linda Bourdeaux – design Fleming McWilliams – stylist Robin Geary – hair stylist, make-up  Notes According to the liner notes, the album was dedicated to Vincent Denté (1937-1999). An instrumental interlude appears at the end of "With All My Heart", starting at 2:43. This is a shorter version of the hidden track at the end of "With All My Heart".   == References ==

Cryobiology is the branch of biology that studies the effects of low temperatures on living things within Earth's cryosphere or in science. The word cryobiology is derived from the Greek words κρῧος [kryos], "cold", βίος [bios], "life", and λόγος [logos], "word". In practice, cryobiology is the study of biological material or systems at temperatures below normal. Materials or systems studied may include proteins, cells, tissues, organs, or whole organisms. Temperatures may range from moderately hypothermic conditions to cryogenic temperatures.  Areas of study At least six major areas of cryobiology can be identified: 1) study of cold-adaptation of microorganisms, plants (cold hardiness), and animals, both invertebrates and vertebrates (including hibernation), 2) cryopreservation of cells, tissues, gametes, and embryos of animal and human origin for (medical) purposes of long-term storage by cooling to temperatures below the freezing point of water.  This usually requires the addition of substances which protect the cells during freezing and thawing (cryoprotectants), 3) preservation of organs under hypothermic conditions for transplantation, 4) lyophilization (freeze-drying) of pharmaceuticals, 5) cryosurgery, a (minimally) invasive approach for the destruction of unhealthy tissue using cryogenic gases/fluids, and 6) physics of supercooling, ice nucleation/growth and mechanical engineering aspects of heat transfer during cooling and warming, as applied to biological systems. Cryobiology would include cryonics, the low temperature preservation of humans and mammals with the intention of future revival, although this is not part of mainstream cryobiology, depending heavily on speculative technology yet to be invented. Several of these areas of study rely on cryogenics, the branch of physics and engineering that studies the production and use of very low temperatures.  Cryopreservation in nature Many living organisms are able to tolerate prolonged periods of time at temperatures below the freezing point of water.  Most living organisms accumulate cryoprotectants such as antinucleating proteins, polyols, and glucose to protect themselves against frost damage by sharp ice crystals. Most plants, in particular, can safely reach temperatures of −4 °C to −12 °C.  Bacteria Three species of bacteria, Carnobacterium pleistocenium, Chryseobacterium greenlandensis, and Herminiimonas glaciei, have reportedly been revived after surviving for thousands of years frozen in ice. Certain bacteria, notably Pseudomonas syringae, produce specialized proteins that serve as potent ice nucleators, which they use to force ice formation on the surface of various fruits and plants at about −2 °C. The freezing causes injuries in the epithelia and makes the nutrients in the underlying plant tissues available to the bacteria.  Listeria grows slowly in temperatures as low as -1.5 °C and persists for some time in frozen foods.  Plants Many plants undergo a process called hardening which allows them to survive temperatures below 0 °C for weeks to months.  Animals Invertebrates Nematodes that survive below 0 °C include Trichostrongylus colubriformis and Panagrolaimus davidi. Cockroach nymphs (Periplaneta japonica) survive short periods of freezing at -6 to -8 °C. The red flat bark beetle (Cucujus clavipes) can survive after being frozen to -150 °C. The fungus gnat Exechia nugatoria can survive after being frozen to -50 °C, by a unique mechanism whereby ice crystals form in the body but not the head. Another freeze-tolerant beetle is Upis ceramboides. See insect winter ecology and antifreeze protein. Another invertebrate that is briefly tolerant to temperatures down to -273 °C is the tardigrade. The larvae of Haemonchus contortus, a nematode, can survive 44 weeks frozen at -196 °C.  Vertebrates For the wood frog (Rana sylvatica), in the winter, as much as 45% of its body may freeze and turn to ice. "Ice crystals form beneath the skin and become interspersed among the body's skeletal muscles. During the freeze, the frog's breathing, blood flow, and heartbeat cease. Freezing is made possible by specialized proteins and glucose, which prevent intracellular freezing and dehydration."  The wood frog can survive up to 11 days frozen at -4 °C. Other vertebrates that survive at body temperatures below 0 °C include painted turtles (Chrysemys picta), gray tree frogs (Hyla versicolor), moor frogs (Rana arvalis), box turtles (Terrapene carolina - 48 hours at -2 °C), spring peeper (Pseudacris crucifer), garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis- 24 hours at -1.5 °C), the chorus frog (Pseudacris triseriata), Siberian salamander (Salamandrella keyserlingii - 24 hours at -15.3 °C), European common lizard (Lacerta vivipara) and Antarctic fish such as Pagothenia borchgrevinki. Antifreeze proteins cloned from such fish have been used to confer frost-resistance on transgenic plants. Hibernating Arctic ground squirrels may have abdominal temperatures as low as  −2.9 °C (26.8 °F), maintaining subzero abdominal temperatures for more than three weeks at a time, although the temperatures at the head and neck remain at 0 °C or above.  Applied cryobiology Historical background Cryobiology history can be traced back to antiquity. As early as in 2500 BC, low temperatures were used in Egypt in medicine. The use of cold was recommended by Hippocrates to stop bleeding and swelling. With the emergence of modern science, Robert Boyle studied the effects of low temperatures on animals. In 1949, bull semen was cryopreserved for the first time by a team of scientists led by Christopher Polge.  This led to a much wider use of cryopreservation today, with many organs, tissues and cells routinely stored at low temperatures. Large organs such as hearts are usually stored and transported, for short times only, at cool but not freezing temperatures for transplantation. Cell suspensions (like blood and semen) and thin tissue sections can sometimes be stored almost indefinitely in liquid nitrogen temperature (cryopreservation). Human sperm, eggs, and embryos are routinely stored in fertility research and treatments. Controlled-rate and slow freezing are well established techniques pioneered in the early 1970s which enabled the first human embryo frozen birth (Zoe Leyland) in 1984. Since then, machines that freeze biological samples using programmable steps, or controlled rates, have been used all over the world for human, animal, and cell biology – 'freezing down' a sample to better preserve it for eventual thawing, before it is deep frozen, or cryopreserved, in liquid nitrogen. Such machines are used for freezing oocytes, skin, blood products, embryo, sperm, stem cells, and general tissue preservation in hospitals, veterinary practices, and research labs. The number of live births from 'slow frozen' embryos is some 300,000 to 400,000 or 20% of the estimated 3 million in vitro fertilized births. Dr Christopher Chen, Australia, reported the world’s first pregnancy using slow-frozen oocytes from a British controlled-rate freezer in 1986. Cryosurgery (intended and controlled tissue destruction by ice formation) was carried out by James Arnott in 1845 in an operation on a patient with cancer.  Preservation techniques Cryobiology as an applied science is primarily concerned with low-temperature preservation. Hypothermic storage is typically above 0 °C but below normothermic (32 °C to 37 °C) mammalian temperatures. Storage by cryopreservation, on the other hand, will be in the −80 to −196 °C temperature range. Organs, and tissues are more frequently the objects of hypothermic storage, whereas single cells have been the most common objects cryopreserved. A rule of thumb in hypothermic storage is that every 10 °C reduction in temperature is accompanied by a 50% decrease in oxygen consumption. Although hibernating animals have adapted mechanisms to avoid metabolic imbalances associated with hypothermia, hypothermic organs, and tissues being maintained for transplantation require special preservation solutions to counter acidosis, depressed sodium pump activity. and increased intracellular calcium. Special organ preservation solutions such as Viaspan (University of Wisconsin solution), HTK, and Celsior have been designed for this purpose. These solutions also contain ingredients to minimize damage by free radicals, prevent edema, compensate for ATP loss, etc. Cryopreservation of cells is guided by the "two-factor hypothesis" of American cryobiologist Peter Mazur, which states that excessively rapid cooling kills cells by intracellular ice formation and excessively slow cooling kills cells by either electrolyte toxicity or mechanical crushing. During slow cooling, ice forms extracellularly, causing water to osmotically leave cells, thereby dehydrating them. Intracellular ice can be much more damaging than extracellular ice. For red blood cells, the optimum cooling rate is very rapid (nearly 100 °C per second), whereas for stem cells the optimum cooling rate is very slow (1 °C per minute). Cryoprotectants, such as dimethyl sulfoxide and glycerol, are used to protect cells from freezing. A variety of cell types are protected by 10% dimethyl sulfoxide. Cryobiologists attempt to optimize cryoprotectant concentration (minimizing both ice formation and toxicity) and cooling rate. Cells may be cooled at an optimum rate to a temperature between −30 and −40 °C before being plunged into liquid nitrogen. Slow cooling methods rely on the fact that cells contain few nucleating agents, but contain naturally occurring vitrifying substances that can prevent ice formation in cells that have been moderately dehydrated. Some cryobiologists are seeking mixtures of cryoprotectants for full vitrification (zero ice formation) in preservation of cells, tissues, and organs. Vitrification methods pose a challenge in the requirement to search for cryoprotectant mixtures that can minimize toxicity.  In humans Human gametes and two-, four- and eight-cell embryos can survive cryopreservation at -196 °C for 10 years under well-controlled laboratory conditions. Cryopreservation in humans with regards to infertility involves preservation of embryos, sperm, or oocytes via freezing.  Conception, in vitro, is attempted when the sperm is thawed and introduced to the 'fresh' eggs, the frozen eggs are thawed and sperm is placed with the eggs and together they are placed back into the uterus or a frozen embryo is introduced to the uterus.  Vitrification has flaws and is not as reliable or proven as freezing fertilized sperm, eggs, or embryos as traditional slow freezing methods because eggs alone are extremely sensitive to temperature.  Many researchers are also freezing ovarian tissue in conjunction with the eggs in hopes that the ovarian tissue can be transplanted back into the uterus, stimulating normal ovulation cycles. In 2004, Donnez of Louvain in Belgium reported the first successful ovarian birth from frozen ovarian tissue. In 1997, samples of ovarian cortex were taken from a woman with Hodgkin's lymphoma and cryopreserved in a (Planer, UK) controlled-rate freezer and then stored in liquid nitrogen. Chemotherapy was initiated  after the patient had premature ovarian failure. In 2003, after freeze-thawing, orthotopic autotransplantation of ovarian cortical tissue was done by laparoscopy and after five months, reimplantation signs indicated recovery of regular ovulatory cycles. Eleven months after reimplantation, a viable intrauterine pregnancy was confirmed, which resulted in the first such live birth – a girl named Tamara. Therapeutic hypothermia, e.g. during heart surgery on a "cold" heart (generated by cold perfusion without any ice formation) allows for much longer operations and improves recovery rates for patients.  Scientific societies The Society for Cryobiology was founded in 1964 to bring together those from the biological, medical, and physical sciences who have a common interest in the effects of low temperatures on biological systems.  As of 2007, the Society for Cryobiology had about 280 members from around the world, and one-half of them are US-based.  The purpose of the Society is to promote scientific research in low temperature biology, to improve scientific understanding in this field, and to disseminate and apply this knowledge to the benefit of mankind. The Society requires of all its members the highest ethical and scientific standards in the performance of their professional activities. According to the Society's bylaws, membership may be refused to applicants whose conduct is deemed detrimental to the Society; in 1982, the bylaws were amended explicitly to exclude "any practice or application of freezing deceased persons in the anticipation of their reanimation", over the objections of some members who were cryonicists, such as Jerry Leaf. The Society organizes an annual scientific meeting dedicated to all aspects of low-temperature biology.  This international meeting offers opportunities for presentation and discussion of the most up-to-date research in cryobiology, as well as reviewing specific aspects through symposia and workshops.  Members are also kept informed of news and forthcoming meetings through the Society newsletter, News Notes.  The 2011–2012 president of the Society for Cryobiology was John H. Crowe. The Society for Low Temperature Biology was founded in 1964 and became a registered charity in 2003 with the purpose of promoting research into the effects of low temperatures on all types of organisms and their constituent cells, tissues, and organs.  As of 2006, the society had around 130 (mostly British and European) members and holds at least one annual general meeting.  The program usually includes both a symposium on a topical subject and a session of free communications on any aspect of low-temperature biology.  Recent symposia have included long-term stability, preservation of aquatic organisms, cryopreservation of embryos and gametes, preservation of plants, low-temperature microscopy, vitrification (glass formation of aqueous systems during cooling), freeze drying and tissue banking.  Members are informed through the Society Newsletter, which is presently published three times a year.  Journals Cryobiology (publisher: Elsevier) is the foremost scientific publication in this area, with about 60 refereed contributions published each year. Articles concern any aspect of low-temperature biology and medicine (e.g. freezing, freeze-drying, hibernation, cold tolerance and adaptation, cryoprotective compounds, medical applications of reduced temperature, cryosurgery, hypothermia, and perfusion of organs). Cryo Letters is an independent UK-based rapid communication journal which publishes papers on the effects produced by low temperatures on a wide variety of biophysical and biological processes, or studies involving low-temperature techniques in the investigation of biological and ecological topics. Biopreservation and Biobanking (formerly Cell Preservation Technology) is a peer-reviewed quarterly scientific journal published by Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. dedicated to the diverse spectrum of preservation technologies including cryopreservation, dry-state (anhydrobiosis), and glassy-state and hypothermic maintenance.  Cell Preservation Technology has been renamed Biopreservation and Biobanking and is the official journal of International Society for Biological and Environmental Repositories. Problems of Cryobiology and Cryomedicine  (formerly 'Kriobiologiya' (1985-1990) and 'Problems of Cryobiology'(1991-2012) ) published by Institute for Problems of Cryobiology and Cryomedicine.  The journal covers all topics related to low temperature biology, medicine and engineering.  See also Cryptobiosis Aldehyde-stabilized cryopreservation  References External links  Cell Preservation Technology Cellular cryobiology and anhydrobiology An overview of the science behind cryobiology at the Science Creative Quarterly

Oda Buldigilu is one of the 20 Districts of Ethiopia, or woredas, in the Benishangul-Gumuz Region of Ethiopia. Part of the Asosa Zone, it is bordered by the Kamashi Zone in the north and east, by Oromia Region in the south, by Bambasi in the southwest, by Asosa in the west, and by Menge in the northwest. The major settlement in this woreda is Oda Buldigilu. This woreda is located on the eastern slopes of the Dabus River, with elevations ranging from approximately 2000 meters above sea level in the east to just under 1000 meters at the bottom of the Dabus valley.  Demographics The 2007 national census reported a total population for this woreda of 54,584, of whom 28,885 were men and 25,699 were women; 3,165 or 5.8% of its population were urban dwellers. The majority of the inhabitants said they were Moslem, with 67.53% of the population reporting they observed this belief, while 27.37% of the population were Protestant and 4.14% practised Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity. Based on figures from the Central Statistical Agency in 2005, this woreda has an estimated total population of 29,604, of whom 15,282 are men and 14,322 are women. With an estimated area of 1,387.19 square kilometers, Oda Godere has a population density of 21.3 people per square kilometer which is greater than the Zone average of 19.95. The 1994 national census reported a total population for this woreda of 22,320 in 4,743 households, of whom 11,573 were men and 10,747 were women; no urban dwellers were recorded in this woreda. The three largest ethnic groups reported in Oda Godere were the Berta (77.7%), the Oromo (18.6%), and the Gumuz (3.4%); all other ethnic groups made up 0.3% of the population. Berta is spoken as a first language by 77.4%, 20% speak Oromiffa, and 2.4% speak Gumuz; the remaining 0.2% spoke all other primary languages reported. The majority of the inhabitants were Muslim, with 70% of the population stating that they embraced that faith, while 14.8% were Protestants, and 11.5% professed Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity. Concerning education, 2.73% of the population were considered literate, which is less than the Zone average of 18.49%; only 0.55% of children aged 7–12 were in primary school, while none of the children aged 13–14 were in junior secondary school, nor were any of the inhabitants aged 15–18 in senior secondary school. Concerning sanitary conditions, 3.7% of all houses had access to safe drinking water, and 2.7% had toilet facilities at the time of the census.   == Notes ==

Richard John Hounslow (born 19 December 1981) is a British slalom canoeist who competed at the international level from 1999 until his retirement in 2016. He started out as a specialist in the kayak (K1) category, but in 2009 he also started competing in canoe doubles (C2) alongside David Florence. In his last season (2016) he concentrated on the C2 class exclusively.  Personal and early life Hounslow was born in the London Borough of Harrow, which he represented in the London Youth Games. He attended Harrow College. He was inducted into the London Youth Games Hall of Fame in 2012. Outside of canoeing, Hounslow is a Tottenham Hotspur supporter.  Career At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London he won a silver medal in the C2 event and placed 12th in the K1 event. He won another silver medal in the C2 event at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. Hounslow won nine medals at the ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships with a gold (C2: 2013), a silver (K1 team: 2009) and seven bronzes (C2: 2010; C2 team: 2009, 2011, 2013, 2015; K1 team: 2014, 2015). He also won 9 medals at the European Championships (2 golds, 3 silvers and 4 bronzes). In 2012, Hounslow won the C2 gold at the World Cup race in Cardiff along with David Florence.  World Cup individual podiums References External links  2010 ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships 11 September 2010 C2 men's final results – Retrieved 11 September 2010. 12 September 2009 final results for the men's C2 team slalom event for the 2009 ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships. – Retrieved 12 September 2009. 12 September 2009 final results for the men's K1 team event at the 2009 ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships. – Retrieved 12 September 2009.

Alkaid , also called Eta Ursae Majoris (Latinised from η Ursae Majoris, abbreviated Eta UMa, η UMa), is a star in the constellation of Ursa Major. It is the most eastern (leftmost) star in the Big Dipper (or Plough) asterism. However, unlike most stars of the Big Dipper, it is not a member of the Ursa Major moving group. With an apparent visual magnitude of +1.86, it is the third-brightest star in the constellation and one of the brightest stars in the night sky.  Physical properties Eta Ursae Majoris is a 10-million-year-old B-type main sequence star with a stellar classification of B3 V. Since 1943, the spectrum of this star has served as one of the stable anchor points by which other stars are classified. It has six times the mass; 3.4 times the radius, and is radiating around 594 times as much energy as the Sun. Its outer atmosphere has an effective temperature of about 15,540 K, giving it the blue-white hue of a B-type star. This star is an X-ray emitter with a luminosity of 9.3 × 1028 erg s−1. Eta Ursae Majoris was listed as a standard star for the spectral type B3 V. It has broadened absorption lines due to its rapid rotation, which is common in stars of this type. However, the lines are very slightly distorted and variable, which may be caused by some emission from a weak disk of material produced by the rapid rotation. Eta Ursae Majoris is a relatively nearby and bright star and has been examined closely, but no exoplanets or companion stars have been discovered.  Nomenclature η Ursae Majoris (Latinised to Eta Ursae Majoris) is the star's Bayer designation.  The International Astronomical Union has formally chosen the proper name Alkaid for this star. It bore the traditional names Alkaid (or Elkeid from the Arabic القايد القائد) and Benetnasch . Alkaid derives from the Arabic phrase meaning "The leader of the daughters of the bier" (قائد بنات نعش qā'id bināt naʿsh). The daughters of the bier, i.e. the mourning maidens, are the three stars of the handle of the Big Dipper, Alkaid, Mizar, and Alioth; while the four stars of the bowl, Megrez, Phecda, Merak, and Dubhe, are the bier. It is known as Běidǒuqī (北斗七 - the Seventh Star of the Northern Dipper) or Yáoguāng (瑤光 - the Star of Twinkling Brilliance) in Chinese. The Hindus knew this star as Marīci, one of the Seven Rishis. In Japan and Korea, Alkaid is known as Hagunsei and Mukokseong respectively ("the military breaking star" or "most corner star"). Both meanings come from ancient China's influence in both countries.  In culture USS Alkaid (AK-114) was a United States Navy Crater class cargo ship named after the star. Alkaid is one of the Behenian fixed stars, used in Alchemy.  References External links Alkaid at Jim Kaler's Stars website

A dog bite is a bite upon a person or other animal by a dog, including from a rabid dog. More than one successive bite is often called a dog attack, although dog attacks can include knock-downs and scratches. Though some dog bites do not result in injury, they can result in infection, disfigurement, temporary or permanent disability, or death. Another type of dog bite is the "soft bite" displayed by well-trained dogs, by puppies, and in non-aggressive play. Dog bites can occur during dog fighting, as a response to mistreatment, by trained dogs working as guard, police or military animals, or during a random encounter. There is debate on whether or not certain breeds of dogs are inherently more prone to commit attacks causing serious injury (i.e., so driven by instinct and breeding that, under certain circumstances, they are exceedingly likely to attempt or commit dangerous attacks). It is recognized that the risk of dog bites can be increased by human actions such as abuse or bite training, or through inaction such as neglect, carelessness in confinement or lack of control. Significant dog bites affect tens of millions of people globally each year. It is estimated that 2% of the U.S. population,  4.5–4.7 million people, are bitten by dogs each year. Most bites occur in children, with nearly half of all children in the U.S. being bitten by a dog at least once by the age of 12. In the 1980s and 1990s, the U.S. averaged 17 deaths per year. Between 2011 and 2021 approximately 468 people were killed by dog bites in the United States, averaging 43 deaths per year. Between 2018 and 2021, deaths were more than doubled for both males (age 15 to 37) and females (age 20 to 44). Animal bites, most of which are from dogs, are the reason for 1% of visits to emergency departments in the United States.  Cause Breeds All dog breeds can inflict a bite; breed is not an accurate predictor of whether or not a dog will bite. In the US pit bull-type and Rottweilers most frequently are identified breeds in cases of severe bites. In a study comparing media accounts of 256 dog bite related deaths 2000–2009, when a strict definition was used ("documented pedigree, parentage information, or DNA test results or on the basis of concordance among media breed descriptor, animal control breed descriptor, and the veterinarian-assigned breed from a photograph") the resulting 45 dogs comprised 20 recognized breeds and 2 known crosses. The study also published information comparing when multiple media reports (or media reports compared with animal control reports) differed in reporting the breeds. When using a strict definition ("Rottweiler" is not equal to "Rottweiler-mix") 30%-40% of the reports varied. When using a less strict definition ("Rottweiler" and "Rottweiler-mix" are equal enough) only 12%-15% of the reports varied. A 2000 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) of human fatalities from dog bites during the twenty years 1979–1998, reported that pit bull-type dogs and Rottweilers were involved in more than half of the deaths. Published in the Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, the AVMA's opinion was that the study could not be used to infer any breed-specific risk for dog bite fatalities without also noting the numbers of each breed residing in the US.  Dog behavior In isolation, predatory behaviors are rarely the cause of an attack on a human. Predatory aggression is more commonly involved as a contributing factor for example in attacks by multiple dogs; a "pack kill instinct" may arise if multiple dogs are involved in an attack.  Prevention Dog bite prevention is efforts to prevent people being attacked and bitten by dogs. Legislative bodies have addressed concerns about dog bites that include licensing laws, statutes outlawing organized dogfights, and leash laws. Breed-Specific Legislation (BSL) has been enacted in some areas limiting the ownership and activities of dogs perceived to be more likely to bite and attack. Dog breeds targeted by breed-specific regulations include Rottweilers, American Staffordshire Bull Terriers ("Pit Bulls"), Chow Chows, German Shepherd Dogs, and Doberman Pinschers. Other measures in preventing dog bites are Beware of the dog signage and locked dog enclosures. Some people, like the very young or the very old, are more susceptible to being bitten and therefore may need additional methods of prevention. Dogs can be extremely territorial and protective. Dogs can attack anyone who poses a threat to their companions, whether humans, other dogs, or even cats. Dogs can rival bears and big cats in ferocity when confronting burglars, even if they are ordinarily docile. In addition to causing pain, injury, or nerve damage, almost one out of five bites becomes infected. Those who work and live around dogs should be aware of the risk and take precautions. Rabies is a particular risk associated with dog bites. In the United States between 16,000 and 39,000 people come in contact with potentially rabid dogs and other animals and receive rabies pre- and post-exposure prophylaxis against the rabies virus each year. Because anyone who is bitten by an unvaccinated dog is at risk of getting rabies, local animal control agencies or police are sometimes able to capture the animal and determine whether or not it is infected with rabies. Identifying the risk of being bitten by a dog can prevent an attack and subsequent injury or death. Infants and children are more likely to be bitten. Small children can be attacked if they approach or play with a dog when they are not supervised. Among children, the rate of dog-bite–related injuries is highest for those five to nine years old. Children are more likely than adults to need medical attention for dog bites. Men are more likely than women to be bitten by a dog. Over half of dog-bite injuries occur in the home. Having a dog in the household is associated with a higher likelihood of being bitten than not having a dog. As the number of dogs in the home increases, so does the likelihood of being bitten. Adults with two or more dogs in the household are five times more likely to be bitten than those living without dogs at home. The behavior of a dog may not always indicate its friendliness or unlikelihood of biting. This is because when a dog wags its tail, most people interpret this as the dog expressing happiness and friendliness. Though indeed tail wagging can express these positive emotions, tail wagging is also an indication of fear, insecurity, anxiety, challenging of dominance, establishing social relationships or a warning that the dog may bite.  Health effects Rabies results in the death of approximately 55,000 people per year, with most of the causes due to dog bites. Capnocytophaga canimorsus, MRSA, tetanus, and Pasteurella can be transmitted from a dog to someone bitten by the dog. Bergeyella zoohelcum is an emerging infection transmitted through dog bites. Infection with B. zoohelcum from dog bites can lead to bacteremia.  Treatment When a person receives a dog bite where the skin is broken, the risk of a serious infection can be reduced by cleaning the wound and getting appropriate health care treatment. It is important to find out if the dog's rabies vaccinations are current. A Cochrane review found that there is not much evidence for or against current practices of keeping dog bite wounds left open to heal for a short time before closure (delayed closure) or not stitched at all (no closure) over immediate closure by stitching.  Epidemiology Significant dog bites affect tens of millions of people globally each year. It is estimated that 1.5–2 percent of the US population, from 4.5 to 4.7 million people, are bitten by dogs yearly. Most bites occur in children. Over half of dog bite injuries occur at home with familiar dogs and having a dog in the household is linked to a higher likelihood of being bitten than not having a dog. As the number of dogs in the home increases, so does the likelihood of being bitten. Dog bites may transmit zoonotic infections, which may also result in illness or death. Dogs are the primary source of rabies transmission to humans. Information on the extent of traumatic injuries from dog attacks is incomplete, and the number of bites is thought to be underreported. In a survey of dog bites in Pennsylvania, the rate of dog bites was 36 times higher than what had been reported to authorities. According to national estimates, almost 1,000 persons per day are seen in US emergency departments for dog bites. It has been estimated that 1 out of 2 people will sustain a dog-related injury during his lifetime. Most victims are involved in normal, apparently nonprovoking activities before dog attacks. Animal bites, most of which are from dogs, are the reason for 1% of visits to an emergency department in the United States. Some people, like the very young or the very old are more susceptible to being bitten by a dog. From 1979 through 1994 there were approximately 279 deaths related to dog attacks in the United States. More serious injuries from dogs are often described in the media. In 2010, more people were killed by dogs (34) than were hit by lightning (29). Emergency department visits and treatment by those bitten number in the thousands.  Australia On average 2,061 people received treatment for dog bite injuries each year between 2001 and 2013.  Austria About 5,900 Austrians are treated annually after being bitten by dogs. One fifth of those injured are children.  United States In the United States, approximately 4.5 million people are bitten by dogs each year. Approximately twenty percent of dog bites become infected. In a survey of dog bites in Pennsylvania, the rate of dog bites was 36 times higher than what had been reported to authorities. According to national estimates, almost 1,000 persons per day are seen in emergency departments for dog bites. It has been estimated that 1 out of 2 people will have a dog-related injury during their lifetime.  Legal issues Dog owners may be legally liable for the bites and injuries that their dog causes to people or other dogs. In addition, states and local governments have passed laws and ordinances that allow the government to take action against dogs that are considered dangerous. In some cases, a dog owner may be criminally prosecuted for a dog attack on another person. Homeowner's insurance policies typically provide some liability coverage for dog bites that occur on the insured properties.  United States All US states recognize that a dog owner may be potentially liable for dog bites. Depending upon the state, the rules for when a dog owner may be liable for a bite will vary. Models of liability for dog bites fall into three broad categories:  Common law. At common law, a dog owner can be held liable for the injury caused by a dog that the owner knows, or has reason to know, may be dangerous. Many common law jurisdictions have historically recognized a "one bite" rule, meaning that absent information that suggests that a dog may be unusually dangerous to others, a dog owner cannot be held liable for the first bite injury caused by their dog. Strict liability. States that impose strict liability make the owner of a dog liable for injuries caused by a dog, without further consideration of the facts. Strict liability laws may require that the person seeking damages for a dog bite prove that they were acting peacefully and lawfully at the time of the bite. The law may also recognize a limited range of defenses to liability, such as the dog owner successfully proving that the injured person was trespassing at the time of the injury or had engaged in conduct that provoked the attack. Mixed law. Many states take a mixed approach, passing statutes that are based upon the common law but that add additional elements that must be proven for a dog bite injury to succeed in an injury claim, or provide defenses not available at common law. The United States is not receptive to the idea that the dog itself can be criminally liable for a bite. A California court explained that, although the tendency to anthropomorphize animals is understandable, especially with beloved pets like dogs, the law does not recognize dogs as having the mental state that can incur criminal liability. That is, although dogs and other animals may have the capacity to commit vicious and violent acts, they do not possess the legal ability to commit crimes. States that have enacted legislation that assigns liability include Michigan, Rhode Island, Florida, California, and Texas. Connecticut's dog bite statute provides for strict liability in most situations, subject to exceptions if the person bitten by the dog was trespassing or involved in a tort, or was teasing, abusing, or tormenting the dog.  See also List of fatal dog attacks Animal attack Beware of the dog Breed-specific legislation Cat bite Coyote attack Dingo attack Dog aggression Dog behavior Dogs in the United States Man bites dog Rabies Wolf attacks on humans  Further reading Daigle, L.; Delesalle, L.; Ravel, A.; Ford, B.; Aenishaenslin, C. (2022). Daigle, L; Delesalle, L; Ravel, A; Ford, B; Aenishaenslin, C (eds.). "Occurrence and Risk Factors of Dog Bites in Northern Indigenous Communities: A Scoping Review". Frontiers in Veterinary Science. 9. doi:10.3389/fvets.2022.777640. PMC 9064469. PMID 35518635. Alizadeh, Kaveh; Shayesteh, Ali; Li Xu, Min (2017). "An Algorithmic Approach to Operative Management of Complex Pediatric Dog Bites: 3-Year Review of a Level I Regional Referral Pediatric Trauma Hospital". Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery – Global Open. 5 (10): e1431. doi:10.1097/GOX.0000000000001431. PMC 5682160. PMID 29184724.  References External links   Aggressive dogs travel guide from Wikivoyage NCIPC bibliography of articles on dog bites (2011) CDC Dog Bite Factsheet (2014)

Zhu Ting (Chinese: 朱婷; pinyin: Zhū Tíng; born 29 November 1994) is a professional Chinese volleyball player. She is an outside hitter and former captain of the China women's national volleyball team. Currently, she plays for Italian club Imoco Volley Conegliano. Zhu and the Chinese national team have won several gold medals in international competition, including the 2016 Olympic Games, the 2015 and 2019 World Cup.  Since her debut in 2011, Zhu has received 15 MVP awards at all levels of competition (including national team and clubs), particularly the MVP award of Rio Olympic Games 2016. She is widely regarded as one of the most decorated and successful indoor volleyball players of all time. She was the highest paid professional volleyball player in the world, male or female, as of the 2018-2019 season.  Early life Zhu Ting was born to a rural family in Henan Province. She has four sisters (two older sisters and two younger sisters) and her parents do not have any sports backgrounds. In 2007, Zhu, who was 13 years old and 1.7 meters tall at the time, was sent to a sports training school by her high school physical education teacher. In 2008, she started professional volleyball training in the Henan Province sports school.  Career Junior and Youth National Team 2010-2013: First MVP award at international tournament After training professionally for two years, Zhu was selected to be on the Chinese Junior National team in 2010. She participated in 2011 FIVB Volleyball Girls' U18 World Championship and won a silver medal with the team. In 2012, she entered the U20 team and won the 2012 Asian Junior Women's Volleyball Championship. She was also awarded MVP for the first time. In 2013, she continued to represent China's U20 national team and attended the 2013 FIVB Volleyball Women's U20 World Championship, helping the team win the championship. Continuing her high-level play, she was eventually awarded the MVP, Best Scorer, and Best Spiker of the tournament.  Senior National Team and Clubs 2013: First year in China National Team and Bronze medal at Club World Championship Zhu entered the Chinese senior national volleyball team for the first time in 2013, handpicked by Lang Ping who returned as head coach that year. Zhu participated in her first tournament in 2013 Montreux Volley Masters. Although the Chinese team finished in sixth place, Zhu was awarded Best Scorer of the tournament.  Zhu rose to prominence at the 2013 FIVB U20 World Championship where she helped her team to win the title without losing a set. She was awarded MVP and Best Outside Spiker in the tournament.  Playing her first Grand Prix at the 2013 FIVB Volleyball World Grand Prix, Zhu helped her team to win silver medal, the first in six years. She was awarded Best Outside Spiker of the tournament. Zhu participated in the 2013 Club World Championship with Guangdong Evergrande, winning the bronze medal after defeating Voléro Zürich.  2014: Silver medal at the World Championship Zhu led the Chinese team to silver medal in the 2014 FIVB World Championship, the best result in 16 years. She scored 32 points in the semi-final against Italy but lost to the American Team in the final. Zhu was awarded Best Scorer as well as Best Outside Spiker.  2015: Asian Champion and World Cup Champion with National Team At the 2015 Asian Women's Volleyball Championship, the Chinese team won all matches and attained their 13th gold medal of the tournament. Zhu was awarded Most Valuable Player and Best Outside Spiker. At the 2015 FIVB World Cup, the Chinese team won their 4th gold medal of the tournament and their first World Title since 2004 Athens Olympics. Zhu was awarded Most Valuable Player and became the third Chinese player since Sun Jinfang and Lang Ping to earn the title.  2016: Olympics Gold Medal and first season overseas At the 2016 Rio Olympics the Chinese team defeated the two-time defending champion, the Brazilian Team in 5 sets in the quarterfinal. Zhu scored 28 points. In the semifinal, they defeated the Netherlands in 4 sets. Zhu scored 33 points,  thus ranked no.3 on all-time top scorers list in a single match in the Olympic games. In the final, China defeated Serbia in 4 sets to earn their third Olympics gold medal since 2004. Zhu finished as the top scorer with a total of 179 points.  She was awarded MVP and Best Outside Spiker, and became the third Chinese player since Lang Ping and Feng Kun to earn the MVP title.   Zhu joined Turkish club Vakıfbank Istanbul, becoming the youngest Chinese player playing overseas, with the help of her original club Henan Huawei as well as her Chinese Team head coach Lang Ping.  At the 2016 FIVB Club World Championship,  Vakıfbank finished 3rd place after defeating Voléro Zürich in the bronze medal match. Zhu was awarded Best Outside Hitter.  She also became the first player in the tournament history to be the best scorer twice after scoring 103 points.  2017: Second Year in Vakifbank, four MVPs at different levels of competition Zhu won the 2016–17 Turkish League Best Outside Spiker and Best Scorer awards. In the regular season, VakıfBank finished first with only one loss throughout. However, the team was stunned in the semifinal by Galatasaray S.K. and failed to reach the final, although they managed to finish third after defeating Eczacıbaşı VitrA. At the 2016–17 CEV Champions League, VakıfBank won all six matches in the preliminary round. They defeated Voléro Zürich in two 3-1 matches to reach the semifinal. They then defeated Eczacıbaşı VitrA 3-0 to reach the final. Zhu scored 24 points. In the final VakıfBank defeated the host team Imoco Volley Conegliano to win their third title of the tournament. Zhu scored 22 points and was awarded MVP. At the 2017 FIVB Club World Championship, VakıfBank remained undefeated in the group stage to reach the semifinal, where they beat Eczacıbaşı VitrA 3-1 to reach the final. They then defeated Rexona-Sesc Rio in straight sets to win the championship for a second time. Zhu was awarded MVP and Best Outside Spiker. She is the first Asian MVP in this tournament. In June, VakıfBank announced the renewal of contract with Zhu for the coming season. She was reported to be the world's highest paid volleyball player for a reputed salary of €1.35 million (US$1.61 million and HK$12 million). Zhu was named new captain of China women's national volleyball team in 2017. She helped her team to reach fourth place in the 2017 FIVB World Grand Prix and was awarded Best Outside Spiker.  China then won gold medal in the 2017 FIVB World Grand Champions Cup. Zhu was awarded Best Outside Spiker and MVP. In December 2017, she won the Turkish Cup with VakıfBank and was selected as Most Valuable Player.  2018: Third Year in Vakifbank and Bronze medal in 2018 World Championship with National Team In March, VakıfBank beat Galatasary in the semifinal of 2017–18 Turkish Women's Volleyball League. Zhu scored 33 points in Round 2 to help the team enter the final. In April, Vakifbank beat Eczacıbaşı VitrA 3:2 in the final to win the championship title. Zhu was the highest scorer of her team. Significantly, in the last round of the match, Zhu scored 20 points with an attack success rate of 68%, extremely high even among the best attackers.  With this title, Zhu won the first national league championship in her career and was awarded MVP. In April, VakıfBank won Voléro Zürich in Playoff 6 of 2017–18 CEV Women's Champions League. Zhu scored 21 points in Second Leg to help the team enter final four of the tournament. In May, Vakifbank beat Italian club Imoco Volley and Romanian club CSM Volei Alba Blaj in the semifinal and final, eventually winning the club's 4th championship title. Zhu scored 24 points and 15 points in these two rounds and was awarded Best Outside Spiker. Vakifbank swept all championship titles of the 2017-2018 season. With that, Zhu became the only volleyball player in the world to attain championship titles as well as MVP awards in club competitions of all levels, including the national, regional and world level. On June 21, VakıfBank announced the renewal of contract with Zhu which is her third season with the club. In July, Zhu returned to the National team and continued as a core player. She led the Chinese team to a bronze medal at the 2018 Nations League and was awarded Best Outside Spiker.  In September, she made her debut in the Jakarta Asian Games. The Chinese team was dominant throughout the tournament, winning the gold medal without dropping a single set. From September to October, she led the Chinese team to a bronze medal at her second FIVB World Championship. She was again awarded Best Outside Spiker, her second at the Championship. In December, Zhu played at the Club World Championship held in Zhejiang, China. With overwhelming support from her countrymen, she propelled Vakifbank to a resounding victory, beating two Brazilian clubs in the semifinal and final matches. Again, she was awarded the tournament's MVP and Best Outside Spiker.  2019-2020: Second World Cup Champion and return to Chinese League In March, Vakifbank beat Russian club Dinamo Moscow in the second round of the quarter-final of the 2018–19 CEV Women's Champions League. Zhu scored 17 points with a greater-than-60% attack success rate. The team advanced to the semi-final. From April to May, Vakifbank beat Eczacıbaşı VitrA 3:2 again in the final of the 2018–19 Turkish Women's Volleyball League and won the championship title. In the 5 matches of the final, Zhu scored 106 attack points with a 50% success rate, ranking first amongst all spikers. She again received the tournament MVP award. On 7 May, Zhu and Vakifbank announced that she would leave the team temporarily, in order to concentrate on training with the national team for the 2020 Summer Olympics. Zhu would return to Chinese League. In September, Zhu played her second FIVB World Cup in Japan. She led team China to win all 11 matches, successfully defending their champion. Zhu received her second FIVB World Cup MVP award and was elected Best Outside Spiker. On 1 October, Zhu announced via social media that she would join Chinese club Tianjin Bohai Bank in the coming season. In December, Zhu and Tianjin team successfully enter the final of the 2019-20 Chinese Volleyball League. Zhu scored the highest points in the two semifinal matches against Beijing.  2021: Chinese League Champion, Wrist Injury, Tokyo Olympics and aftermath Zhu continued to play at Tianjin in the season 2020-21 and finally won the champion again. She received her second MVP award of Chinese Volleyball League. Zhu was plagued by an ongoing wrist injury that first occurred in 2017. Instead of opting for radical surgery, she underwent conservative treatment due to her volleyball schedule. The injury continued to plague her at the Tokyo Olympics. After China's disappointing result in their bid to defend their Olympic champion, China's coaches and players were heavily criticized across social media by Chinese fans. In August 2021, Zhu announced she would be filing a lawsuit against internet trolls for harassment and for "deliberately smearing" her. Meanwhile, Zhu did not sign with any club in season 2021/22, as she planned to take a rest and wait for surgery.  2022: Wrist surgery and recovery, Joined new club Scandicci Zhu announced on her Sina Weibo in April that she has successfully finished her wrist surgery and was undergoing rehabilitation. On 2 July, Italian Serie A1 club Savino del Bene Scandicci announced the transfer of Zhu to their club in the coming season, which is her second overseas career experience. On 3 November, Scandicci defeated Casalmaggiore 3-0 in regular season games. Zhu was substituted at set two and three and contributed 6 points, including 5 spikes. This was Zhu's first match after 14 months since Tokyo Olympics.  2023: CEV Cup Champions and extended contract with Scandicci On 13 April 2023, Scandicci beat CSM Volei Alba Blaj in straight sets to win their first Women's CEV Cup champion. Zhu scored 13 points. This was her first champion after her wrist surgery. On 28 May, Scandicci officially announced the extension of contract with Zhu for one more season.  2024: Return to Chinese National Team, Signed with Conegliano On 8 April 2024, Zhu announced on her social media that she will return to Chinese National Team, and play at 2024 FIVB Volleyball Women's Nations League.  On 27 June, Italian Serie A1 club Imoco Volley Conegliano announced the signing of Zhu in the coming season, which is her third season at Italian League. She is the first Chinese player in the history of the club and will play with the number 4.  Career Statistics Club National Team Career Statistics from 2013 — 2023 Awards and individual honors National team Junior team 2011 U18 World Championship -  Silver Medal 2012 Asian Junior Championship -  Gold Medal 2013 U20 World Championship -  Gold Medal  Senior team 2013 World Grand Prix -  Silver Medal 2014 World Championship -  Silver Medal 2015 Asian Championship -  Gold Medal 2015 World Cup -  Gold Medal 2016 Olympic Games -  - Gold medal 2017 World Grand Champions Cup -  Gold Medal 2018 Volleyball Nations League -  Bronze Medal 2018 Asian Games -  Gold Medal 2018 World Championship -  Bronze Medal 2019 Volleyball Nations League -  Bronze Medal 2019 World Cup -  Gold Medal  Club 2013 Club World Championship -  Bronze medal, with Guangdong Evergrande 2016 Club World Championship -  Bronze medal, with VakıfBank 2016–17 Turkish Cup -  Runner-Up, with VakıfBank 2016–17 CEV Champions League -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2016–17 Turkish League -  Bronze medal, with VakıfBank 2017 Club World Championship -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2017 Turkish Super Cup -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2017–18 Turkish Cup -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2017–18 Turkish League -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2017–18 CEV Champions League -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2018 Turkish Super Cup -  Runner-Up, with VakıfBank 2018 Club World Championship -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2018–19 Turkish League -  Champion, with VakıfBank 2019–20 Chinese League -  Champion, with Tianjin Bohai Bank 2020–21 Chinese League -  Champion, with Tianjin Bohai Bank 2022–23 Women's CEV Cup -  Champion, with Savino del Bene Scandicci 2022–23 Italian League -  Bronze medal, with Savino del Bene Scandicci 2023–24 Italian League -  Runner-Up, with Savino del Bene Scandicci  Individual awards 2012 Asian Junior Championship "Most valuable player" 2012 Asian Junior Championship "Best scorer" 2012 Asian Junior Championship "Best spiker" 2013 FIVB Junior World Championship "Most valuable player" 2013 FIVB Junior World Championship "Best outside hitter" 2013 Montreux Volley Masters "Best scorer" 2013 FIVB World Grand Prix "Best outside spiker" 2013 Asian Volleyball Championship "Best spiker" 2014 FIVB World Championship "Best scorer" 2014 FIVB World Championship "Best outside spiker" 2015 Asian Championship "Most valuable player" 2015 Asian Championship "Best outside spiker" 2015 FIVB World Cup "Most valuable player" 2016 Olympic Games "Most valuable player" 2016 Olympic Games "Best outside spiker" 2016 FIVB Club World Championship "Best outside spiker" 2016–17 Turkish League Regular Season "Best outside spiker" 2016–17 CEV Champions League "Most valuable player" 2017 FIVB Club World Championship "Best outside spiker" 2017 FIVB Club World Championship "Most valuable player" 2017 FIVB World Grand Prix "Best outside spiker" 2017 FIVB World Grand Champions Cup "Best outside spiker" 2017 FIVB World Grand Champions Cup "Most valuable player" 2017–18 Turkish Cup "Most valuable player" 2017–18 Turkish Volleyball League "Most valuable player" 2017–18 CEV Champions League "Best outside spikers" 2018 FIVB Volleyball Nations League "Best outside spiker" 2018 FIVB World Championship "Best outside spiker" 2018 FIVB Club World Championship "Best outside spiker" 2018 FIVB Club World Championship "Most valuable player" 2018–19 Turkish Volleyball League "Most valuable player" 2019 FIVB World Cup "Most valuable player" 2019 FIVB World Cup "Best Outsider Spiker" 2019–20 Chinese Volleyball League "Most valuable player" 2019–20 Chinese Volleyball League "Best outside spiker" 2020–21 Chinese Volleyball League "Most valuable player"  Other Achievements Xinhua News Agency's Top Ten Chinese Athletes of the Year: 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 2016 CCTV Sports Personality of the Year: Best Female Athlete  Film Leap (2020) - as Zhu Ting  References External links  Zhu Ting on Weibo (in Chinese) Zhu Ting on Instagram

Suhung also known as Samaguria Rojaa Khamjang (reign 1674–1675 CE) was a king of the medieval Indian Ahom kingdom who ruled for a very short period. While most of the chronicles put the number of days of his reign as 20, in some chronicles the duration of his reign was shown as one month and fifteen days. Suhung was installed as king of Ahom kingdom by Debera Borbarua after the latter poisoned Ahom king Ramdhwaj Singha. His reign was characterized by the atrocities committed by his minister Debera Borbarua. Finally, Suhung decided to get rid of Debera Borbarua and put an end to his reign of tyranny, but the powerful minister outsmarted the king, by secretly poisoning his medicine and killing him.  Ancestry and accession Suhung was the descendant of Ahom king Suhungmung and is also known in the Buranjis as the Samuguria king since he belonged to the Samuguria branch of the Ahom dynasty. He was known as Chamaguriya Kamjang Konwar (Chao Khamjang). After poisoning Ramdhwaj Singha to death, Debera Borbarua installed Suhung, a nephew on his mother's side, as the king of Ahom Kingdom. Debera also placed several ladies of noble origins in the inner apartments of Suhung, who also served as his secret agents and informants. Pakhari Gabharu, daughter of Momai-tamuli Borbarua and sister of Lachit Borphukan and Laluk Sola Borphukan, was selected as the Barkunwari or chief consort for Suhung. Previously she was the consort of Swargadeo Jaydhwaj Singha and Swargadeo Chakradhwaj Singha and therefore was well versed with the politics of the state.  Reign Elimination of Royal Princes by Debera Borbarua Meanwhile, other princes of Ahom dynasty began their endeavor to claim the throne. Narayan Gohain Tipam Raja, brother of Ramdhwaj Singha the previous king, having heard of his brother's death marched towards the capital Garhgaon accompanied by Kachalukhowa Solal Gohain with the object of becoming king. Debera Borbarua rides out with his two lieutenants Ratanpuria and Dakhinpatia, to meet the prince's forces. In the fight that ensued, Narayan Gohain was defeated and he fell into a wayside ditch. It is said that Debera then said, 'Oh, prince, come near and don't be afraid. Whom shall I appoint king but Your Highness?' After having brought the prince near and having dressed him in the attire and ornaments of a king, Debera said to his lieutenants, 'Well, Ratanpuria and Dakhinpatia, what are you looking at? Make the Gohaindeo king.' The two henchmen took the hint and killed Narayan Gohain and Kachalukhowa Solal Gohain. Debera Borbarua then decided to get rid of other potential claimants to the throne. Ban Gohain Namrupia Raja, another brother of Swargadeo Ramdhwaj Singha was killed at Namrup by Chetia Patar, an emissary of Debera. The fourteen sons of Swargadeo Udayaditya Singha were put to death.  Envoy from Kachari Kingdom It was customary for the rulers of the Kachari kingdom to send greetings to newly installed kings of the Ahom kingdom. The Kachari envoy arrived with letters and presents for Swargadeo Ramdhwaj Singha. When they arrived at the Capital Garhgaon, they learned of the death of Ramdhwaj Singha and the accession of Suhung as the new king. Still, the Ahom officials received the envoy and granted his wish for an interview with Swargadeo Suhung. After the customary reception in the court, Suhung informed the envoy that he would not open or read any letters meant for a former monarch. Therefore he instructed the Kachari envoy to return and bring letters addressed to him.  Atrocities of Debera Borbarua In order to establish firm control over the administration, Debera Borbarua began to kill the officers and nobles who were suspected of enmity towards him or who had means to effect his destruction. The modus operandi adopted by Debera in his campaign of slaughter was as follows: when an official visited the court in connection with his duties, Debera would announce to him that the king was offended with him and had, therefore, asked him to renounce his office and retire to his house. The officer would then be deprived of his retainers and insignia of office. The two lieutenants of Debera, Ratanpuria, and Dakhinpatia would then be instructed to escort the dismissed officer to his home, who would be cut into pieces on the way. In this way Debera caused the destruction of a large number of officials belonging to the establishment at Garhgaon. Debera planned to murder a prominent Ahom noble, Simaluguria Naobaicha Phukan, son of Chengdhara Barbarua of Chiringdang family. Fearing for life, the Phukan did not stir out of the house on the plea of illness. Debera engaged a woman of ill repute to visit the house of the Phukan on the pretext of rendering some domestic service. She came back and reported to Debera about the faked illness of the Phukan whereupon Debera sought opportunities to get the Phukan murdered. However, Gomotha Bhandari Barua was not lucky enough as he was caught and executed by the henchmen sent by Debera Borbarua. For all these high-handed actions neither did Debera seek permission from the king nor did he provide any explanation to the monarch.  Suhung plans to kill Debera Borbarua Debera's atrocities roused the attention of Swargadeo Suhung's chief queen Pakhari Gabharu. She then said to her Royal husband,--'You are king only in name if Debera is allowed to wield power like this.' She pointed out to the monarch his reduction to a nonentity in view of the unbridled authority of Debera Borbarua. Suhung having realized the significance of his chief queen's misgivings held secret consultation with her, and Simaluguria Naobaicha Phukan, the arch-rival of Debera Borbarua and Laitai Deodhai, a Tai-Ahom priest and decided to kill Debera. The proceedings of this conclave were conducted in Tai-Ahom language which was the original dialect of the Ahom rulers and which had now fallen into comparative obsoleteness owing to their adoption of Assamese language as the language of the court.  Death Meanwhile, a maid in attendance at the meeting discovered the plan, and she forthwith informed Debera Borbarua of his impending destruction. To counter the plan of his opposition, Debera immediately decided to take drastic steps. Debera Borbarua secretly administered poison in the medicine of Swargadeo Suhung, which resulted in the death of the king. After the death of Suhung, Debera Borbarua entered in the inner apartments of the Royal Palace, where he met the Chief Queen, Pakhari Gabharu and said,--'You are formerly a Tamuli Kunwari or a junior consort of Jaydhwaj Singha, and it was I who raised you to the rank of Borkunwari, or the Chief Queen of the Samuguria Raja, and you dare to speak like this?' The Queen was put to death and the body was placed at the feet of the deceased monarch at the Moidam or Royal Tomb. The Simaluguria Naobaicha Phukan was also killed, but Laitai Deodhai's life was spared as he belonged to an Ahom priestly clan.  Legacy Suhung's reign lasted only for some twenty days which was characterized by atrocities and the ministerial dictatorship of Debera Borbarua. Many officers at the capital Garhgaon were killed, replaced by Debera's favorites. Since most of the prominent nobles, including Atan Burhagohain and Laluk Sola Borphukan were at Guwahati, in anticipation of an attack by Mughals, after their defeat in the Battle of Saraighat, Debera Borbarua got the opportunity to wield supreme power and assumed the role of king-maker. Suhung's attempt to reestablish the administration, by getting rid of Debera resulted in failure spelling doom for him, his wife and his supporters.  See also Garhgaon Jaintia kingdom Kachari kingdom Sibsagar district  Notes References Barbaruah Hiteswar Ahomar-Din or A History of Assam under the Ahoms first edition 1981 Publication Board of Assam Guwahati Barua Gunaviram Assam Buranji or A History of Assam fourth edition 2008 Publication Board of Assam Guwahati Gait E.A. A History of Assam second edition 1926 Thacker, Spink & Co Calcutta Bhuyan S. K. ATAN BURAGOHAN AND HIS TIMES, first edition 1957 Lawyers Book Stall, Guwahati

Stein (German pronunciation: [ʃtaɪ̯n] ) is a former municipality in the Wahlkreis (constituency) of Toggenburg in the canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland.  The municipalities of Nesslau-Krummenau and Stein merged on 1 January 2013 into the new municipality of Nesslau.  Geography Stein had an area, as of 2006, of 12.3 km2 (4.7 sq mi).  Of this area, 57.3% is used for agricultural purposes, while 37.3% is forested.  Of the rest of the land, 2.2% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (3.3%) is non-productive (rivers or lakes).  Coat of arms The blazon of the municipal coat of arms is Or on a mount of the same a Stone Cliff vert.  This is a simple example of canting as German: Stein means stone.  The stone on the coat of arms is the Goggeienberg, a small, local crag.  Demographics Stein had a population (as of Dec 2011) of 374.  As of 2007, about 3.7% of the population was made up of foreign nationals.  Of the foreign population, (as of 2000), 5 are from Germany, 1 person is from Italy,2 are from ex-Yugoslavia,  and 2 are from another country.  Over the last 10 years the population has decreased at a rate of -7.4%.  Most of the population (as of 2000) speaks German (98.2%), with Finnish being second most common ( 0.8%) and Italian being third ( 0.3%).  Of the Swiss national languages (as of 2000), 391 speak German, 1 person speaks,  Italian, The age distribution, as of 2000, in Stein is; 61 children or 15.3% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 56 teenagers or 14.1% are between 10 and 19.  Of the adult population, 38 people or 9.5% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old.  52 people or 13.1% are between 30 and 39, 48 people or 12.1% are between 40 and 49, and 62 people or 15.6% are between 50 and 59.  The senior population distribution is 38 people or 9.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 21 people or 5.3% are between 70 and 79, there are 19 people or 4.8% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 3 people or 0.8% who are between 90 and 99. In 2000 there were 42 persons (or 10.6% of the population) who were living alone in a private dwelling.  There were 80 (or 20.1%) persons who were part of a couple (married or otherwise committed) without children, and 243 (or 61.1%) who were part of a couple with children.  There were 14 (or 3.5%) people who lived in single parent home, while there are 6 persons who were adult children living with one or both parents, and 13 who are either institutionalized or live in another type of collective housing. In the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 36.8% of the vote.  The next three most popular parties were the CVP (23.7%), the FDP (15.1%) and the SP (7.8%). In Stein about 67.2% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a Fachhochschule).  Out of the total population in Stein, as of 2000, the highest education level completed by 129 people (32.4% of the population) was Primary, while 136 (34.2%) have completed their secondary education, 27 (6.8%) have attended a Tertiary school, and 5 (1.3%) are not in school.  The remainder did not answer this question.  Sights The village of Stein has a pair of notable churches.  The Reformed church was built in 1497 and renovated in 1929.  The north tower has a gabled roof.  The Catholic church of St. Jacob was built in 1927-28, but the Rococo pulpit dates from 1770.  Economy As of  2007, Stein had an unemployment rate of 0.79%.  As of 2005, there were 80 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 32 businesses involved in this sector.  20 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 6 businesses in this sector.  52 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 11 businesses in this sector. As of October 2009 the average unemployment rate was 0.5%.  There were 46 businesses in the municipality of which 4 were involved in the secondary sector of the economy while 11 were involved in the third. As of 2000 there were 111 residents who worked in the municipality, while 75 residents worked outside Stein and 33 people commuted into the municipality for work.  Religion From the 2000 census, 173 or 43.5% are Roman Catholic, while 187 or 47.0% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church.  Of the rest of the population, there is 1 individual who belongs to the Orthodox Church, and there are 25 individuals (or about 6.28% of the population) who belong to another Christian church.  There are 2 (or about 0.50% of the population) who are Islamic. 9 (or about 2.26% of the population) belong to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 1 individuals (or about 0.25% of the population) did not answer the question.  References External links Official website (in German)

Greg Cronin (born June 2, 1963) is an American professional ice hockey coach who is the head coach for the Anaheim Ducks of the National Hockey League (NHL).  Coaching career Cronin began his career as an assistant coach at his alma mater, Colby College in 1987–88 and then became a graduate assistant at the University of Maine from 1988 to 1990, then as an assistant for Colorado College from 1990 to 1993. He returned to Maine to be an assistant coach from 1993 to 1995 and was named interim head coach following a scandal that banished head coach Shawn Walsh from the bench for one year in 1995–96, leading the Black Bears to the Hockey East championship game in 1996 where they lost to Providence College, 3–2. After four years with Maine, he spent one year as the head coach of the USNTDP Juniors of USA Hockey before joining the New York Islanders in 1998. Cronin served as an assistant coach with the Islanders for 5 seasons before being named their Director of Player Development and head coach of their minor league affiliate, the Bridgeport Sound Tigers, in 2003. He coached the Sound Tigers for 2 seasons with great success, going 78–61–16–5. In 2005, Cronin replaced Bruce Crowder as head coach of the Northeastern Huskies of the NCAA. Cronin inherited a team that graduated almost all of their key players from a 15–18–5 team and had little hope of competing in the short term. The team went 3–24–7 in 2005–06 before posting a 13–18–5 record the following year behind the development of many of Cronin's recruits. The team further improved to 16–18–3 in 2007–08, winning their first playoff game in years in the 2–1 series loss to the University of Vermont. The Huskies opened the 2008–09 season expected to contend for home-ice advantage in Hockey East (4th place or better) for the first time since 1997–98. The Huskies went 23–9–4 in the regular season, leading the conference until the final day when they lost at Boston College 4–1, falling to second place in Hockey East in the process. Season highlights included Northeastern's first sweep of Maine in 25 years, a win over Boston College in the Beanpot for the first time since 1994, and winning 2 of 3 games against both of the previous season's Hockey East Finalists, Vermont, and Boston College. The Huskies opened the postseason by defeating the University of Massachusetts Amherst in the Hockey East Quarterfinals at Matthews Arena, 2 games to 1, with the 3rd game being won in overtime on a goal by freshman Alex Tuckerman. On February 18, 2011, Cronin was suspended for six games due to possible recruitment violations but was reinstated before Northeastern's quarterfinal playoff series with Boston University. Northeastern would win that series, capturing two of three games at Agganis Arena and make it to the Hockey East semifinals for the second time in three years, where they fell to Boston College. After six seasons as head coach of the Huskies, Cronin returned to USA hockey before joining the Toronto Maple Leafs as an assistant coach in 2011. He remained with the Maple Leafs until rejoining the New York Islanders in 2014. After three years as an assistant coach and one year as an associate coach, Cronin left the Islanders to become head coach of the Colorado Eagles in 2018. On June 5, 2023, the Anaheim Ducks hired Cronin as head coach.  Personal life Cronin lives in Boston, and he has many family connections at Northeastern. His father, Don, and his uncle, Jerry, both played hockey for the Huskies in the 1950s and 1960s, and his cousin Kerry played for the women's teams from 1983–86, winning three Beanpots. Greg Cronin spent three years playing hockey for Colby College with his older brother Donny Cronin Jr.  Head coaching record College † Cronin served as the head coach for Maine during the year-long suspension of Shawn Walsh starting on December 23, 1995  NHL References External links Biographical information and career statistics from Eliteprospects.com, or The Internet Hockey Database Coaching record, uscho.com

Stuart Charles Rattle (16 November 1960 – 4 December 2013) was an Australian interior designer who was murdered by Michael Anthony O’Neill, his partner of 16 years, in their South Yarra home following an argument.  Background Rattle was the owner of Stuart Rattle Interior Design in Melbourne, a high-end interior design firm that catered to an affluent clientele. His work appeared in magazines such as Belle and on television programs such as Gardening Australia. O’Neill, originally from Ireland, was working as a waiter at an Italian bistro when he met Rattle in the 1990s. O’Neill began working for Rattle's firm, where his responsibilities included accounting, quoting, invoicing and ordering stock for clients.  Murder On 4 December 2013, O’Neill struck Rattle with a frying pan and then strangled him with a dog leash after an argument. O’Neill pretended for the next five days that Rattle was still alive, sending text messages from Rattle's phone and telling friends Rattle was unwell. He then burned down the home and attempted to make it appear to be an accident involving candles. O’Neill confessed to killing Rattle when police found inconsistencies in his account of what happened.  Trial O’Neill pleaded guilty to one count of murder and one count of arson. He was diagnosed with ‘dependent personality disorder with prominent features of narcissistic personality disorder’ by his treating psychologist; defence counsel argued this was a mitigating factor, which the prosecution did not contest. O’Neill was sentenced to 18 years in prison with a non-parole period of 13 years. Rattle's estate, worth one million dollars, was given to his parents after the court deemed O’Neill, the beneficiary of Rattle's will, ineligible to benefit.  Books The murder was the subject of the book Smoke and Mirrors by Robin Bowles. Rattle's home was profiled in the book Stuart Rattle’s Musk Farm, featuring a foreword by Paul Bangay. A tribute to Rattle appeared in Vogue Australia.   == References ==

Tinashe Mushakavanhu was born in Harare, Zimbabwe. He is a writer, editor and scholar based at St Anne's College, University of Oxford. Previously, he was a postdoctoral fellow at the Wits Institute for Social & Economic Research (WiSER) at University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa. He holds a PhD in English from University of Kent.  Background Mushakavanhu was born and grew up in Harare, the capital of Zimbabwe, and when he was 16 years old his family moved to the city of Gweru, where he attended Fletcher High School, a once historically prominent school in Zimbabwe.  Education He joined Midlands State University in 2002, two years after it was established, and later graduated with a first-class honours degree in English & Communication. Afterwards, he moved to Trinity College, Carmarthen, where he graduated with an MA in Creative Writing. Subsequently, he went on to receive a PhD in English from the University of Kent. He has held prestigious fellowships in Edinburgh, Johannesburg and New York and has given talks and lectures at various universities and colleges.  Writing As a university student, Mushakavanhu was an active member of the now defunct Budding Writers Association of Zimbabwe (BWAZ), where he was elected as the National Secretary of its executive committee. He has participated in a number of writing programmes, including the British Council's Crossing Borders Creative Writing project between 2004 and 2005, a mentoring initiative that paired young African writers with experienced British writers. He was also a writer-in-residence at Rhodes University. He has written about how, after finishing high school, he determined to learn how books were produced, and so pursued a job at Weaver Press, eventually being hired by publisher Irene Staunton as an assistant.  Media Inspired by his late uncle, Lovemore Dexter Mushaka, the young Mushakavanhu was always drawn to journalism from a young age. He was a columnist for The Standard before he was hired to be inaugural Online Editor at The Financial Gazette, Zimbabwe's oldest private newspaper. He then moved to New York, where he joined the CUNY Graduate School of Journalism as a Tow-Knight Entrepreneurial Journalism Fellow. Mushakavanhu was the first winner of the KNIGHT-VICE  Innovator's Fund that had been initiated by Vice Media co-founder Shane Smith. He was a CNN Diversity Fellow at the 2016 Online News Association (ONA) in Denver, Colorado. Together with Nontsikelelo Mutiti they co-founded Black Chalk & Co, a boutique media and research studio, and their work included synchronised events, publications and exhibitions.  Awards Miles Morland Writing Scholar, 2021 Open Society Soros Arts Fellowship, 2019  Publications Reincarnating Marechera: Notes on a Speculative Archive (Ugly Duckling Presse, 2020) Some Writers Can Give You Two Heart Beats, with Nontsikelelo Mutiti (Black Chalk & Co, 2019) Visa Stories: Experiences Between Law & Migration, with F. Menozzi, B. Kemal (Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2013) State of the Nation: Contemporary Zimbabwean Poetry, with David Nettleingham (The Conversation Paperpress, 2009)   == References ==

Autodromo di Modena (or Aerautodromo di Modena) was a race track on the edge of Modena in Italy. The track had a length of 2.366 km (1.470 mi). It was opened in 1950 and the circuit was crossed by an airstrip of about 1.600 km (0.994 mi) in length which was used by the local flying club.  The track hosted nine editions of the Modena Grand Prix for Formula One and Formula Two racing cars, the last one in 1961. The circuit continued to host other racing events (sportcars, grand touring, Formula Junior, motorcycles) until 1975. In the 1960s and 1970s the track also served as a test track for Ferrari and Maserati during the morning or afternoon (but not both) on week days. At other times of day it was used by residents of the adjacent military camp for driver training while maintaining its original function of airport for private flights. Ferrari driver Mike Parkes, an accomplished pilot, used to fly in regularly from England on his own craft. Despite the expansion of nearby Modena, which involved a proliferation of apartment blocks and electricity pylons, the airstrip continued to be a favoured venue for a number of local aerobatics enthusiasts until 1974. In the early 1970s, Enzo Ferrari, aided and abetted by Maserati and Automobili Stanguellini, demanded an upgrade from the Modena Town Council and Automobile Club d'Italia, the reasoning being that the race track lacked basic safety requirements and was inadequate to test modern racing cars. The proposal was initially discussed with interest, but eventually stalled due to lack of political will. Frustrated by the lack of progress in the negotiations, Ferrari then proceeded to buy the land adjacent to his factory and build the Fiorano Circuit, a 2.997 km (1.862 mi) long track still in use these days to test Ferrari racing and road cars. In 1972 Automobile Club d'Italia decided to invest in the nearby semi-permanent Imola circuit, effectively ending Modena's prospects of holding a modern Formula One race. The circuit was subsequently demolished, and the site redeveloped as a public park to honour Enzo Ferrari in 1991. In 2011 a new Modena Autodrome opened in the Marzaglia area close to Via Aemilia. The track is 2.007 km (1.247 mi) long and is mostly used for local competitions.  Modena Grand Prix The first two editions of the Modena Grand Prix took place on a 12 km-long road track around the area where the autodrome would be eventually built. Enzo Ferrari won on both occasions. The race was then discontinued until 1938, when it took place on a shorter permutation of the circuit known as Circuito del Parco or Anello dei Viali. Tazio Nuvolari won three times. In 1947, following a serious accident that resulted in the death of five spectators, the race track was the subject of a significant number of upgrades, and the Modena Grand Prix was re-introduced in 1950. The last race was held on 3 September 1961 and was won by Stirling Moss in a Lotus 18/21.  Winners of the Modena Grand Prix   == References ==

Laboratory automation is a multi-disciplinary strategy to research, develop, optimize and capitalize on technologies in the laboratory that enable new and improved processes.  Laboratory automation professionals are academic, commercial and government researchers, scientists and engineers who conduct research and develop new technologies to increase productivity, elevate experimental data quality, reduce lab process cycle times, or enable experimentation that otherwise would be impossible. The most widely known application of laboratory automation technology is laboratory robotics.  More generally, the field of laboratory automation comprises many different automated laboratory instruments, devices (the most common being autosamplers), software algorithms, and methodologies used to enable, expedite and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of scientific research in laboratories.  The application of technology in today's laboratories is required to achieve timely progress and remain competitive. Laboratories devoted to activities such as high-throughput screening, combinatorial chemistry, automated clinical and analytical testing, diagnostics, large-scale biorepositories, and many others, would not exist without advancements in laboratory automation. Some universities offer entire programs that focus on lab technologies.  For example, Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis offers a graduate program devoted to Laboratory Informatics.  Also, the Keck Graduate Institute in California offers a graduate degree with an emphasis on development of assays, instrumentation and data analysis tools required for clinical diagnostics, high-throughput screening, genotyping, microarray technologies, proteomics, imaging and other applications.  History At least since 1875 there have been reports of automated devices for scientific investigation. These first devices were mostly built by scientists themselves in order to solve problems in the laboratory. After the second world war, companies started to provide automated equipment with greater and greater complexity. Automation steadily spread in laboratories  through the 20th century, but then a revolution took place: in the early 1980s, the first fully automated laboratory was opened by Dr. Masahide Sasaki.  In 1993, Dr. Rod Markin at the University of Nebraska Medical Center created one of the world's first clinical automated laboratory management systems.  In the mid-1990s, he chaired a standards group called the Clinical Testing Automation Standards Steering Committee (CTASSC) of the American Association for Clinical Chemistry, which later evolved into an area committee of the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute. In 2004, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and more than 300 nationally recognized leaders in academia, industry, government, and the public completed the NIH Roadmap to accelerate medical discovery to improve health.  The NIH Roadmap clearly identifies technology development as a mission critical factor in the Molecular Libraries and Imaging Implementation Group (see the first theme – New Pathways to Discovery – at https://web.archive.org/web/20100611171315/http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/). Despite the success of Dr. Sasaki laboratory and others of the kind, the multi-million dollar cost of such laboratories has prevented adoption by smaller groups. This is all more difficult because  devices made by different manufactures often cannot communicate with each other. However, recent advances based on the use of scripting languages like Autoit have made possible the integration of equipment from different manufacturers. Using this approach, many low-cost electronic devices, including open-source devices, become compatible with common laboratory instruments. Some startups such as Emerald Cloud Lab and Strateos provide on-demand and remote laboratory access on a commercial scale. A 2017 study indicates that these commercial-scale, fully integrated automated laboratories can improve reproducibility and transparency in basic biomedical experiments, and that over nine in ten biomedical papers use methods currently available through these groups.  Low-cost laboratory automation A large obstacle to the implementation of automation in laboratories has been its high cost. Many laboratory instruments are very expensive. This is justifiable in many cases, as such equipment can perform very specific tasks employing cutting-edge technology. However, there are devices employed in the laboratory that are not highly technological but still are very expensive. This is the case of many automated devices, which perform tasks that could easily be done by simple and low-cost devices like simple robotic arms, universal (open-source) electronic modules, Lego Mindstorms, or 3D printers. So far, using such low-cost devices together with laboratory equipment was considered to be very difficult. However, it has been demonstrated that such low-cost devices can substitute without problems the standard machines used in laboratory. It can be anticipated that more laboratories will take advantage of this new reality as low-cost automation is very attractive for laboratories. A technology that enables the integration of any machine regardless of their brand is scripting, more specifically, scripting involving the control of mouse clicks and keyboard entries, like AutoIt. By timing clicks and keyboard inputs, different software interfaces controlling different devices can be perfectly synchronized.  References Further reading Katz, Alan (1 May 2009), "Lab Automation Protocols and Virtual Workcells", Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology News, OMICS, vol. 29, no. 9, Mary Ann Liebert, pp. 40–41, ISSN 1935-472X, OCLC 77706455, archived from the original on 25 February 2012, retrieved 25 July 2009

Frank Raymond LaPena, also known as Frank LaPeña and by his Wintu name Tauhindauli (1937 – 2019), was a Nomtipom-Wintu American Indian painter, printmaker, ethnographer, professor, ceremonial dancer, poet, and writer. He taught at California State University, Sacramento, between 1975 and 2002. LaPena helped defined a generation of Native artists in a revival movement to share their experiences, traditions, culture, and ancestry.  Early life and education Frank Raymond LaPena was born on October 5, 1937, in San Francisco, California, to parents Evelyn Gladys (née Towndolly) and Henry LaPena. His family was of the Nomtipom-Wintu tribe, and from an early age he started learning about traditions from his elders and neighboring tribes including the Nomlaki Wintun. When he was a child he was sent to attend federal boarding school at Chemawa Indian School, and later Stewart Indian School. He graduated from Yreka High School in 1956. He received a BA degree in 1965 from California State University, Chico, and his MA degree in 1978 in anthropology from California State University, Sacramento.  Teaching career and ethnography LaPena started teaching at Shasta College, from 1969 to 1971. LaPena taught at California State University, Sacramento within the art department and ethnic studies department, and serving as the director of the Native American studies department, between 1975 and 2002. He lectured on traditional and cultural Native American issues, which included the California traditions. In 1970, he was part of the Maidu Dancers and Traditionalists group, as a founding member, ceremonial dancer and instructor. He had notable students, including Harry Fonseca. LaPena's contributions about the Wintu were included in the seminal book, Handbook of North American Indians Volume 8: California (1978). He was frequent contributor to the journal, News from Native California, between the late-1980s until the 2000s.  Art career and poetry LaPena starting exhibiting his artwork in 1960 in a gallery in Chico. His artwork was shown nationally, as well as in Europe, Central and South America, Cuba, Australia and New Zealand. He created work in various mediums including in painting, printmaking, silversmithing, photography, woodworking, and others. LePena was part of the seminal art exhibition curated by artist Carlos Villa, Other Sources: An American Essay (1976), which was an alternative celebration of the United States Bicentennial, and focused on people of color and women. It showcased many San Francisco Bay Area artists including Ruth Asawa, Bernice Bing, Rolando Castellón, Claude Clark, Robert Colescott, Frank Day, Rupert García, Mike Henderson, Oliver Jackson, Linda Lomahaftewa, George Longfish, Ralph Maradiaga, José Montoya, Manuel Neri, Mary Lovelace O'Neal, Darryl Sapien, Raymond Saunders, James Hiroshi Suzuki, Horace Washington, Al Wong, René Yañez, and Leo Valledor. LaPena served as a co-curator of the traveling exhibition, The Extension of Tradition: Contemporary Northern California Native American Art in Cultural Perspective (1985–1986) at Crocker Art Museum and Palm Springs Art Museum. In 1999, at the 48th Venice Biennale, the exhibit “Rendezvoused" sponsored by the Native American Arts Alliance, curated by Nancy Mithlo (Chiricahua Apache) and featured artist Frank LaPena, alongside Harry Fonseca, Bob Haozous, Jaune Quick-to-See Smith, Kay WalkingStick, Richard Ray Whitman, and poet Simon Ortiz. Additionally, LaPena published several volumes of poetry.  Death and legacy LaPena died on May 2, 2019, at the age of 81. LaPena had been married to Catherine Alice Sell Skinner, from August 19, 1966, to April 12, 1984, and ending in divorce. Together they had two children, and LaPena had five step-children. His artwork is included in public museum collections, including at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), the Cantor Arts Center, the National Museum of the American Indian, C.N. Gorman Museum, and others. He was featured in two documentary films, Frank LaPeña: Wintu Artist and Traditionalist (1988) and The Heard Museum Presents Frank LaPeña, Artist and Lecturer (1993).  Publications Exhibition catalogues LaPena, Frank R. (1975). Paintings and Photographs by Frank Lapena: An Exhibition, February 23 - March 29, 1975 (exhibition). U.S. Department of the Interior, Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Southern Plains Indian Museum and Crafts Center. LaPena, Frank R.; Brown, Christopher; Bean, Lowell John; Bates, Craig D.; Bibby, Brian; Blount, Clinton; Theodoratus, Dorothea; Longfish, George; Randall, Joan (1985). The Extension of Tradition: Contemporary Northern California Native American Art in Cultural Perspective. Crocker Art Museum, Palm Springs Desert Museum. Crocker Art Museum. LaPena, Frank R. (1987). The World is a Gift (exhibition). San Francisco, California: Limestone Press. OCLC 17004515.  As author LaPena, Frank R. (1978). "Wintu". In Heizer, Robert F. (ed.). Handbook of North American Indians Volume 8: California. Smithsonian Institution. pp. 324–340. ISBN 978-0874741889. LaPena, Frank; Bates, Craig D. (1981). Legends of the Yosemite Miwok. Harry Fonseca (illustrator). Yosemite Natural History Association. ISBN 978-0939666324. LaPena, Frank R. (1995). Commemoration: Words and Images. Okeanos Press. Dobkins, Rebecca J.; Caldwell, Carey T.; LaPena, Frank R. (1997). Memory and Imagination: The Legacy of Maidu Indian Artist Frank Day (exhibition). Oakland Museum of California. University of Washington Press. ISBN 978-0295976129. LaPena, Frank (2004). Dream Songs and Ceremony. Berkeley, CA: Heyday. ISBN 978-1890771799.  As editor Gilmore, Kristina Perea (2019). LaPena, Frank; Johnson, Mark Dean (eds.). When I Remember I See Red: American Indian Art and Activism in California. Crocker Art Museum. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0520300811.  See also Timeline of Native American art history  References External links Guide to the Frank R. LaPena papers, 1930s-2013, Online Archive of California (OAC)

An election took place on February 24, 2015, to elect the mayor of Chicago. The election was non-partisan and no candidate received a majority. A runoff election was held between the top two finishers (both Democrats) on April 7, 2015, and resulted in the reelection of incumbent mayor Rahm Emanuel. The elections were concurrent with the 2015 Chicago aldermanic elections. Emanuel ran for reelection, seeking a second term in office. In the first round, Emanuel received 46% of the vote and Democratic Cook County Commissioner Jesús "Chuy" García received 34%. Because no candidate received a majority, a runoff was held. In the runoff, Emanuel received 56.23% of the vote, winning the election. Garcia received 43.77% of the vote. 2015 was the first time the election advanced to a runoff since mayoral elections became non-partisan in 1999.  Candidates Ran Rahm Emanuel, incumbent mayor Bob Fioretti, Chicago City Alderman Jesús "Chuy" García, Cook County Commissioner and former state senator William "Dock" Walls, community activist, businessman, former aide to Mayor Harold Washington and perennial candidate Willie Wilson, medical supply company executive  Write-in candidates William H. Calloway Christopher Ware Mary Vann  Withdrew Frederick Collins, Chicago police officer Amara Enyia, urban affairs consultant and community activist William J. Kelly, political activist, columnist and Republican candidate for Illinois Comptroller in 2010 and 2014 Gerald Sconyers Robert Shaw, former Chicago City Alderman and former commissioner of the Cook County Board of Review  Removed Fenton Patterson, perennial candidate  Declined Leslie Hairston, Chicago City Alderman Karen Lewis, president of the Chicago Teachers Union Toni Preckwinkle, president of the Cook County Board of Commissioners Kwame Raoul, state senator Scott Waguespack, Chicago city alderman  General election Endorsements Polling * Internal poll for the Rahm Emanuel campaign  Results Results by ward Runoff Endorsements Polling * Internal poll for the Rahm Emanuel campaign  Results Results by ward See also United States elections, 2015 Chicago aldermanic elections, 2015  References External links Third mayoral debate between Emanuel and Garcia, March 31, 2015

The 2012 Benghazi attack was a coordinated attack against two United States government facilities in Benghazi, Libya, by members of the Islamic militant group Ansar al-Sharia. On September 11, 2012, at 9:40 p.m. local time, members of Ansar al-Sharia attacked the American diplomatic compound in Benghazi resulting in the deaths of both United States Ambassador to Libya J. Christopher Stevens and U.S. Foreign Service Information Management Officer Sean Smith. At around 4:00 a.m. on September 12, the group launched a mortar attack against a CIA annex approximately one mile (1.6 km) away, killing two CIA contractors Tyrone S. Woods and Glen Doherty and wounding ten others. Initial analysis by the CIA, repeated by top government officials, indicated that the attack spontaneously arose from a protest. Subsequent investigations showed that the attack was premeditated—although rioters and looters not originally part of the group may have joined in after the attacks began. There is no definitive evidence that al-Qaeda or any other international terrorist organization participated in the Benghazi attack. The United States immediately increased security worldwide at diplomatic and military facilities and began investigating the Benghazi attack. The Libyan Government condemned the attacks and took steps to disband the militias. 30,000 Libyans marched through Benghazi condemning Ansar al-Sharia, which had been formed during the 2011 Libyan civil war to topple Muammar Gaddafi. Despite persistent accusations against President Obama, Hillary Clinton, and Susan Rice, ten investigations—six by Republican-controlled Congressional Committees—did not find that they or any other high-ranking Obama administration officials had acted improperly. Four career State Department officials were criticized for denying requests for additional security at the facility prior to the attack. Eric J. Boswell, the Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security, resigned under pressure, while three others were suspended. In her role as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton subsequently took responsibility for the security lapses. On August 6, 2013, it was reported that the United States had filed criminal charges against several individuals alleged to have been involved in the attacks, including militia leader Ahmed Abu Khattala. Khattala has been described by both Libyan and United States officials as the Benghazi leader of Ansar al-Sharia. The United States Department of State designated Ansar al-Sharia as a terrorist organization in January 2014. Khattala was captured in Libya by United States Army Special Operations Forces, who were acting in coordination with the FBI, in June 2014. Another suspect, Mustafa al-Imam, was captured in October 2017.  Background American presence in Libya and Benghazi The US had not had regular diplomatic presence in Libya since withdrawing its ambassador in 1972 and then closing its embassy after the 1979 U.S. embassy burning in Libya, but since the early 2000s had been starting to normalise relations. During Congressional hearings, Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens' top deputy in Libya, Gregory N. Hicks, testified that Ambassador Stevens was in Benghazi in 2012 because "Secretary [of State Hillary] Clinton wanted the post made permanent", and it was understood that the secretary hoped to make an announcement to that effect during a visit to Tripoli later in the year. He also stated that "Chris [Stevens] wanted to make a symbolic gesture to the people of Benghazi that the United States stood behind their dream of establishing a new democracy." In 2013, CNN reported that sources told it that around 35 US personnel were working in the diplomatic mission in Benghazi at the time of the attack, of whom around 21 were CIA agents. Within months of the start of the Libyan revolution in February 2011, the CIA had begun building a covert presence in Benghazi. During the war, elite counterterrorist operators from the United States Delta Force were deployed to Libya as analysts, instructing the rebels on specifics about weapons and tactics.: 16  J. Christopher Stevens was named the first liaison with the Libyan opposition in March 2011. After the end of the war, both the CIA and the United States' State Department were tasked with continuing to identify and collect arms that had flooded the country during the war, particularly shoulder-fired missiles taken from the arsenal of the Gaddafi regime, as well as securing Libyan chemical weapons stockpiles, and helping to train Libya's new intelligence service. Eastern Libya and Benghazi were key intelligence-gathering hubs for intelligence operatives. Before the attack, the CIA was monitoring Ansar al-Sharia and suspected members of Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, as well as attempting to define the leadership and loyalty of the various militias present and their interaction with the Salafi elements of Libyan society. By the time of the attack, dozens of CIA operatives were on the ground in Benghazi. In addition, it has been reported that in the summer of 2012, American Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) missions had begun to target Libyan militias linked to the Al-Qaeda network of Yasin al-Suri.: 58  By the time of the attack, a composite U.S. Special Operations team with two JSOC members was already in Libya working on their mission profile independently of the CIA and State Department operations.: 58  There was some baseless speculation that the diplomatic post in Benghazi was used by the CIA to smuggle weapons from Libya to anti-Assad rebels in Syria.: 56  Investigative journalist Seymour Hersh cites an anonymous former senior Defense Department Intelligence Official, saying "The consulate's only mission was to provide cover for the moving of arms. It had no real political role." The attack allegedly brought an end to the purported United States involvement, but did not stop the smuggling according to Hersh's source. In January 2014, the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence cast doubt on this alleged United States involvement and reported that "All CIA activities in Benghazi were legal and authorized. On-the-record testimony establishes that the CIA was not sending weapons ... from Libya to Syria, or facilitating other organizations or states that were transferring weapons from Libya to Syria."  Instability in Benghazi In April 2012, two former security guards for the consulate threw an IED over the consulate fence; the incident did not cause any casualties. Just four days later, a similar bomb was thrown at a four-vehicle convoy carrying the United Nations Special Envoy to Libya, exploding twelve feet (3.7 m) from the United Nations envoy's vehicle without injuring anyone. In May 2012, an Al-Qaida affiliate calling itself the "Brigades of the Imprisoned Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman" claimed responsibility for an attack on the International Red Cross (ICRC) office in Benghazi. On August 6, the ICRC suspended operations in Benghazi. The head of the ICRC's delegation in Libya said the aid group was "appalled" by the attack and "extremely concerned" about escalating violence in Libya. The Brigades of the Imprisoned Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman released a video of what it said was its detonation of an explosive device outside the gates of the U.S. consulate on June 6, which caused no casualties but blew a hole in the consulate's perimeter wall, described by one individual as "big enough for forty men to go through". The Brigades claimed that the attack was in response to the killing of Abu Yahya al Libi, a Libyan al-Qaeda leader who had just died in an American drone attack, and was also timed to coincide with the imminent arrival of a United States Diplomat. There were no injuries, but the group left behind leaflets promising more attacks against the United States. British Ambassador to Libya Dominic Asquith survived an assassination attempt in Benghazi on June 10, 2012. Two British protection officers were injured in the attack when their convoy was hit by a rocket-propelled grenade 300 meters from their consulate office. The British Foreign Office withdrew all consular staff from Benghazi in late June 2012. On June 18, 2012, the Tunisian Consulate in Benghazi was attacked by individuals affiliated with Ansar al-Sharia, allegedly because of "attacks by Tunisian artists against Islam".: 31  On the day of the attack, two consulate security guards spotted a man in a Libyan police uniform taking pictures of the consulate with his cell phone from a nearby building that was under construction. The security guards briefly detained the man before releasing him. He drove away in a police car and a complaint was made to the Libyan police station. Sean Smith noticed this surveillance, and messaged a friend online around noon, "Assuming we don't die tonight. We saw one of our 'police' that guard the compound taking pictures.": 34  According to a local security official, he and a battalion commander had met with United States Diplomats three days before the attack and warned the Americans about deteriorating security in the area. The official told CNN that he advised the diplomats, "The situation is frightening; it scares us." Ambassador Stevens' diary, which was later found at the compound, recorded his concern about the growing al-Qaeda presence in the area and his worry about being on an al-Qaeda hit list. United States Security Officer Eric Nordstrom twice requested additional security for the mission in Benghazi from the State Department. His requests were denied and according to Nordstrom, State Department Official Charlene Lamb wanted to keep the security presence in Benghazi "artificially low". On December 30, 2012, the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs released a report, "Flashing Red: A Special Report on the Terrorist Attack at Benghazi", wherein it was determined:  In the months [between February 2011 and September 11, 2012] leading up to the attack on the Temporary Mission Facility in Benghazi, there was a large amount of evidence gathered by the U.S. Intelligence Community (IC) and from open sources that Benghazi was increasingly dangerous and unstable, and that a significant attack against American personnel there was becoming much more likely. While this intelligence was effectively shared within the Intelligence Community (IC) and with key officials at the Department of State, it did not lead to a commensurate increase in security at Benghazi nor to a decision to close the American mission there, either of which would have been more than justified by the intelligence presented. ... The RSO [Regional Security Officer] in Libya compiled a list of 234 security incidents in Libya between June 2011 and July 2012, 50 of which took place in Benghazi. The desire of the State Department to maintain a low profile in Benghazi has been cited as the reason why the State Department circumvented their own Overseas Security Policy Board (OSPB) standards for diplomatic security.: 74–75  In the aftermath, Clinton sought to take responsibility for the security lapses at Benghazi and expressed personal regret. In her January 2013 testimony before Congress, Secretary Clinton claimed security decisions at the Benghazi compound had been made by others, stating, "The specific security requests pertaining to Benghazi ... were handled by the security professionals in the [State] Department. I didn't see those requests, I didn't approve them, I didn't deny them."  Attack The Benghazi attack was conducted by separate military factions on two separate United States compounds. The first assault occurred at the main diplomatic compound, approximately 300 yards (270 m) long and 100 yards (91 m) wide, at about 9:40 p.m. local time (3:40 p.m. Eastern Time). A mortar fire attack on a CIA annex 1.2 miles (1.9 km) away began at about 4:00 a.m. the following morning and lasted for 11 minutes.  Assault on the compound A Libyan guard who was wounded in the attack later said "there wasn't a single ant outside [before the attack]." According to Media Matters For America, the attackers stated they were acting in response to Innocence of Muslims. No more than seven Americans were in the compound, including Ambassador Stevens. Stevens was visiting Benghazi at the time to review plans to establish a new cultural center and modernize a hospital. The ambassador also "needed to [prepare a] report ... on the physical and the political and security environment in Benghazi to support an action memo to convert Benghazi from a temporary facility to a permanent facility". Surplus funds originally dedicated for use in Iran for fiscal year 2012 were to be redirected and obligated for use in Benghazi: an action that had to be completed before the end of the fiscal year—September 30, 2012. Stevens had his last meeting of the day with a Turkish diplomat (Consul General Ali Sait Akın), and escorted the Turkish diplomat to the main gate at about 8:30 p.m. local time. The street outside the compound was calm, and the State Department reported no unusual activity during the day outside. Stevens retired to his room at about 9:00 p.m. About 9:40 p.m. local time, large numbers of armed men shouting "Allāhu Akbar" (God is great) approached the compound from multiple directions. They then threw grenades over the wall and entered the compound with automatic weapons fire, RPGs, and heavier weapons. A Diplomatic Security Service (DSS) agent viewed on the consulate's security cameras "a large number of men, armed men, flowing into the compound". He hit the alarm and started shouting, "Attack! Attack!" over the loudspeaker. Phone calls were made to the embassy in Tripoli, the Diplomatic Security Command Center in Washington, the February 17th Martyrs Brigade and a U.S. quick reaction force located at the annex compound a little more than a mile (1.6 km) away. Diplomatic Security Service Special Agent Scott Wickland secured Stevens and Sean Smith, an information management officer, in the main building's safe haven. The rest of the agents left to retrieve their weapons and tried to return to the main building. The attackers entered the main building and attempted to enter the safe haven. They then spread diesel fuel in the room and set fires. Stevens, Smith, and Wickland moved to the nearby bathroom, but then decided to leave the safe haven after being overcome by smoke. Wickland exited through the window, but Stevens and Smith did not follow him. Wickland (who was severely wounded by gunfire) returned several times but could not find them in the smoke; he went up to the roof and radioed other agents. Three agents returned to the main building in an armored vehicle, searched the building and found Smith's body, but not Stevens. According to the Annex Security Team, they had become aware of the consulate attack after 9:30 p.m. local time, and were ready to respond; however, they were delayed by "the top CIA officer in Benghazi". The Regional Security Office sounded the alarm and called to the Benghazi CIA annex and the embassy in Tripoli. After some discussion, the CIA's Global Response Staff (GRS) at the CIA annex, which included Tyrone S. Woods, decided to attempt a rescue. By 10:05 p.m., the team was briefed and loaded into their armored Toyota Land Cruisers. By this time, communicators at the CIA annex were notifying the chain of command about current developments, and a small CIA and JSOC element in Tripoli that included Glen Doherty was attempting to find a way to Benghazi.: 39–43  The GRS team from the CIA annex arrived at the consulate and attempted to secure the perimeter and locate the ambassador and Sean Smith. Diplomatic security agent David Ubben located Smith, who was unconscious and later declared dead, but the team was unable to find Stevens in the smoke-filled building. The team then decided to return to the annex with the survivors and Smith's body. While en route back to the annex, the group's armored vehicle was hit by AK-47 rifle fire and hand grenades. The vehicle was able to make it to its destination with two flat tires, and the gates to the annex were closed behind them at 11:50 p.m.: 43–45  The US military had mobilized three separate teams to respond to the attack including EUCOM's CIF (Commander's-in-Extremis Force, a specialized direct action/hostage rescue team made up of US Special Forces soldiers) from central Europe, a Marine Security Force Regiment team from Rota, Spain, and an unnamed special operations forces team which was in the US at the time. At the time, AFRICOM, which is responsible for operations in Africa, was the only combatant command which did not have its own CIF team thus having to request EUCOM's assistance. These teams were sent to Naval Air Station Sigonella in Sicily, Italy as a staging point on the night of the attack but did not deploy to Benghazi. United States officials stated the teams arrived at Sigonella after the attack was over.  Reaction in the United States Diplomatic Security Service agents/Regional Security Officers informed their headquarters in Washington about the attack just as it was beginning at about 9:40 p.m. local time (3:40 p.m. Eastern Time (ET)). At the time, they were informed that the attack was a "terrorist attack". However, through September 14, CIA analysts made a contradictory assessment, stating "We believe based on currently available information that the attacks in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the U.S. Consulate and subsequently its annex. The crowd almost certainly was a mix of individuals from across many sectors of Libyan society. That being said, we do know that Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qa'ida participated in the attack." By 4:30 p.m. ET, Pentagon officials had informed Defense Secretary Leon Panetta about the attack. The Pentagon ordered an unmanned aerial vehicle that was in the air conducting surveillance on militant camps to fly over Benghazi. The drone arrived at 11:10 p.m. local time (5:10 p.m. ET) and began providing a video feed to Washington. At 5:41 p.m. ET, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton telephoned CIA Director David Petraeus to coordinate. The CIA, which made up most of the U.S. government's presence in Benghazi, had a ten-member security team at its annex and the State Department believed that this team would assist the consulate in the event of an attack.  Assault on the CIA annex Just after midnight, the CIA annex came under machine gun, rocket and mortar fire. The CIA defenders held off the attack until the morning.: 45–46  That same morning, Libyan government forces met up with a group of Americans, reinforcements from Tripoli including Glen Doherty, that had arrived at the Benghazi airport. The team, which included two active-duty JSOC operators and five CIA personnel, had commandeered a small jet in Tripoli by paying the pilots $30,000 and forcing them to fly to Benghazi.: 43  After being held up at the airport for a few hours, the Libyan forces and newly arrived Americans went to the CIA annex at about 5:00 a.m. to assist in transporting approximately 32 Americans at the annex back to the airport for evacuation. Minutes after they drove through the gates, the annex came under heavy fire. With a lull in the fighting, Doherty began searching for his friend, Tyrone S. Woods, and he was told he was on the roof. He found Woods on the roof with two other agents. A mortar round then hit Woods' position, fatally wounding him. As Doherty attempted to reposition and take cover, a second round fell on him, killing him.: 46–47  31-year-old Diplomatic Security Service Special Agent David Ubben and 46-year-old CIA contractor Mark Geist suffered shrapnel injuries and several broken bones in the mortar attacks. Immediately, several agents ran onto the roof to assess damage and help the wounded. At the same time, a JSOC operator was using a hand-held device displaying images from a Predator drone above, which had been sent by the DOD's US Africa Command after request. The defenders agreed to evacuate to the airport and were attacked with small arms fire along the route.: 47–48  The evacuation of about 30 Americans included six State Department personnel and Smith's body—they were unable to locate Ambassador Stevens at the time.  Recovery of Ambassador Stevens Ambassador Stevens' body was found by a group of Libyans who had accessed the room through a window. They were unaware of his identity, and Abdel-Qader Fadl, a freelance photographer who was with them, told the Associated Press that Stevens was unconscious and "maybe moved his head, but only once". Ahmed Shams, a 22-year-old arts student, told the Associated Press that they were happy when they found Stevens alive and tried to rescue him. A freelance videographer, Fahd al-Bakoush, later published a video showing Libyans trying to extract the ambassador from a smoke-filled room, where he was found unconscious. According to al-Bakoush, the Libyans saw he was alive and breathing, his eyelids flickering. Though they took him to be a foreigner, no one recognized him as Stevens. At around 1:00 a.m., Stevens was taken to the Benghazi Medical Center, a hospital controlled by the Ansar Al-Sharia militia, in a private car as there was no ambulance to carry him. There he was administered CPR for 90 minutes by Dr. Ziad Abu Zeid. According to Dr. Zeid, Stevens died from asphyxiation caused by smoke inhalation, and had no other apparent injuries. The doctor said he believed that officers from the Libyan Interior Ministry transported the body to the airport. State Department officials said they do not know who took Stevens to the hospital or transported the body to the airport and into U.S. custody.  Evacuation The bodies were taken to Benina International Airport and flown to the capital, Tripoli, and then to Ramstein Air Base in Germany aboard a C-17 military transport aircraft. From Germany, the four bodies arrived at Andrews Air Force Base near Washington, D.C., where President Barack Obama and members of his cabinet held a ceremony in honor of those killed. After the attack, all diplomatic staff were moved to the capital, Tripoli, with nonessential personnel to be flown out of Libya. Sensitive documents remained missing, including documents listing the names of Libyans working with the Americans, and documents relating to oil contracts.  Fatalities and injuries Four Americans died in the attack: Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, Information Officer Sean Smith, and two CIA operatives, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods, both former Navy SEALs. Stevens was the first United States ambassador killed in an attack since Adolph Dubs was killed in Kabul, Afghanistan in 1979.  Responsibility On September 10, 2012, at least 18 hours before the attack in Benghazi, al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri released a video to coincide with the anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in 2001, which called for attacks on Americans in Libya in order to avenge the death of Abu Yahya al-Libi in a drone strike in Pakistan in June 2012. It is uncertain how much prior knowledge of the attack al-Zawahiri had, though he praised the attackers on October 12, 2012, in another video. On September 14, 2012, al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula released a statement arguing the attack was revenge for the death of al-Libi, though they did not claim official responsibility for the Benghazi attack. It was later reported that 3 operatives from the group did take part in the attack. Furthermore, an intercepted phone call from the Benghazi area immediately after the attack reportedly linked senior Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb commander Mokhtar Belmokhtar to the attack. David Kirkpatrick of The New York Times reported that 20-year-old neighbor Mohamed Bishari witnessed the attack. According to Bishari, it was launched without warning or protest and was led by the Islamist militia Ansar al-Sharia (different from the group called Ansar al-Sharia based in Yemen designated by the U.N. and the U.S. Department of State as a terrorist organization). Kirkpatrick reported that Ansar al-Sharia said they were launching the assault in retaliation for the release of the anti-Islamic video, Innocence of Muslims. It was further reported that Ahmed Abu Khattala was called a ringleader of the attack by both witnesses and authorities, though he insisted he did not play a part in the aggression at the American compound. Witnesses, Benghazi residents, and Western news reports have described him as a leader of Ansar al-Sharia, though he stated he was close to the group but not an official part of it. He further stated he was the commander of an Islamist brigade, Abu Obaida ibn al-Jarrah, some of whose members had joined Ansar al-Sharia. The Brigades of the Imprisoned Sheikh Omar Abdul Rahman, a pro-al-Qaeda militia calling for the release of The Blind Sheikh, was implicated in the attack by Noman Benotman of the Quilliam Foundation. CNN, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Commentary Magazine and The Daily Telegraph have listed this group as a chief suspect. USA Today reported that protests in Cairo that preceded the attack on Benghazi were intended to protest the imprisonment of Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman and announced as early as August 30. Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi had called for release of the Blind Sheikh in his inaugural address. In the days and weeks following the attack, President Obama and other administration officials correctly noted that the video had sparked violent incidents at a number of U.S. diplomatic facilities, and Susan Rice stated — based on a flawed CIA assessment — that the attack "began spontaneously" after a violent protest at the American embassy in Cairo, Egypt hours earlier. During the hours before the attack, Egyptian satellite television networks popular in Benghazi had been covering the outrage over the video. In a phone call with the Egyptian prime minister Kandil the day after the attack, then-Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said "we know the attack in Libya had nothing to do with the film. It was a planned attack, not a protest." This assessment reflected information in an email sent by the State Department Operations Center to the White House, Pentagon, intelligence community and FBI at 6:07pm Eastern time the night of the attack, the subject line of which read, "Update 2: Ansar al-Sharia Claims Responsibility for Benghazi Attack." However, on the same day of the Clinton phone call, Ansar al-Sharia issued a statement saying it "didn't participate as a sole entity; rather, it was a spontaneous popular uprising in response to what happened by the West," an apparent reference to the release of the video. However, this assessment contradicted the assessment of CIA analysts, which through September 16 maintained that "the demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo," at which violent protesters had scaled the embassy walls. And the day after the attack, Ansar al-Sharia appeared to confirm both assessments when it issued a statement saying The [Ansar al-Shariah] Brigade didn't participate as a sole entity; rather, it was a spontaneous popular uprising in response to what happened by the West," which was an apparent reference to the Innocence of Muslims video.  A later report from an independent review board concluded "there was no protest prior to the attacks." In a September 18 appearance on the Late Show with David Letterman, President Obama said, "extremists and terrorists used (the anti-Muslim YouTube video) as an excuse to attack a variety of our embassies." Obama spoke accurately, because five American embassies were the sites of violent protests due to the video, but Benghazi was not an embassy, it was a "diplomatic post." In his Univision Town Hall appearance on September 20, President Obama said that the "natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video were used as an excuse by extremists to see if they can also directly harm U.S. interests." The Innocence of Muslims video triggered dozens of protests from northwest Africa to southeast Asia, including violent protests at American embassies in Tunis, Khartoum, Cairo, Sana and Jakarta. In October 2012, a Tunisian, Ali Harzi, who a U.S. intelligence official stated had links to Ansar al-Sharia and al-Qaeda in the Maghreb, was arrested in Turkey and repatriated to Tunisia on terrorism charges and possible links to the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi. Ali Harzi was released by Tunisian authorities on January 8, 2013, because of a lack of evidence. Also in October, a Libyan suspect, Karim el-Azizi, who had recently returned to Egypt from Libya and was storing weapons in his hideout, detonated a bomb and was found dead in his apartment after clashes with security forces. He has been linked to an Egyptian terrorist group led by Muhammad Jamal Abu Ahmad, who is suspected of training some of the terrorists responsible for the Benghazi attack in camps in the Libyan desert. Jamal Abu Ahmad, a former member of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, was released from Egyptian prison after the fall of the Mubarak regime, after which he began assembling a terrorist network. He received financing from the Yemen-based Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, petitioned Al-Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri to establish a new Al-Qaeda affiliate he called al-Qaeda in Egypt, and was subsequently detained by Egyptian authorities in December 2012. On October 7, 2013, the Muhammad Jamal network (MJN) and Muhammad Jamal were designated as Specially Designated Global Terrorists by the U.S. Department of State, which noted in its designation that "Jamal has developed connections with al-Qa'ida in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), AQ senior leadership, and al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) leadership including Nasir 'Abd-al-Karim 'Abdullah al-Wahishi and Qasim Yahya Mahdi al-Rimi". A few days later, on October 21, 2013, the United Nations Security Council designated the Muhammad Jamal network "as being associated with Al-Qaida". The United Nations Security Council also noted, "Some of the attackers of the U.S. Mission in Benghazi on 11 September 2012 have been identified as associates of Muhammad Jamal, and some of the Benghazi attackers reportedly trained at MJN camps in Libya." In March 2013, Faraj al-Shibli was detained by Libyan authorities and questioned by the FBI because of his suspected involvement in the Benghazi attack. Al-Shibli was detained after he returned from a trip to Pakistan, though his exact role in the attack is unclear. He was a member of the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, which tried to overthrow the Gadhafi regime in the mid-1990s. Investigators have learned he has had contact with both the Yemen-based Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Al-Qaeda members in Pakistan. He was released by Libyan authorities on June 12, 2013, based on claims there was a lack of evidence to hold him in custody. In July 2014 he was found dead in Libya.  Aftermath Libyan response Libyan Prime Minister Mustafa Abushagur's office condemned the attack and extended condolences, saying: "While strongly condemning any attempt to abuse the person of Muhammad, or an insult to our holy places and prejudice against the faith, we reject and strongly condemn the use of force to terrorize innocent people and the killing of innocent people." It also reaffirmed "the depth of relationship between the peoples of Libya and the U.S., which grew closer with the positions taken by the U.S. government in support of the revolution of February 17". Mohamed Yousef el-Magariaf, the President of the General National Congress of Libya, said: "We apologize to the U.S., to the American people and to the government and also to the rest of the world for what happened yesterday. And at the same time, we expect the world to cooperate with us to confront to what is meant out of this kind of act of cowardice." There were demonstrations in Benghazi and Tripoli on September 12, condemning the violence and holding signs such as "Chris Stevens was a friend to all Libyans", "Benghazi is against terrorism", and other signs apologizing to Americans for the actions in their name and in the name of Muslims. On the same day, Libya's Deputy Ambassador to the United Kingdom Ahmad Jibril told the BBC that Ansar Al-Sharia was behind the attack. On September 13, at a U.S. State Department reception in Washington D.C., the Libyan ambassador to the U.S. Ali Aujali apologized to Secretary of State Clinton for "this terrorist attack which took place against the American consulate in Libya". The ambassador further praised Stevens as a "dear friend" and a "real hero". He also urged the United States to continue supporting Libya as it went "through a very difficult time" and that the young Libyan government needed help so that it could "maintain ... security and stability in our country". In the days after the attack, The New York Times stated that young Libyans had flooded Twitter with pro-American messages after the attacks. Think Progress stated that Libyans are typically more positively inclined towards the United States than their neighbors. A 2012 Gallup poll noted that "A majority of Libyans (54%) surveyed in March and April 2012 approve of the leadership of the U.S.—among the highest approval Gallup has ever recorded in the ... region, outside of Israel." Another poll in Eastern Libya, taken in 2011, reported that the population was at the same time both deeply religious conservative Muslims and very pro-American, with 90% of respondents reporting favorable views of the United States. The Libyan response to the crisis was praised and appreciated in the United States, and President Obama emphasized how the Libyans "helped our diplomats to safety" to an American audience the following day, while a New York Times editorial criticized Egypt's government for not doing "what Libyan leaders did". On September 16, Libyan President Mohamed Magariaf said that the attack on the United States consulate was planned months in advance, and further stated that "[t]he idea that this criminal and cowardly act was a spontaneous protest that just spun out of control is completely unfounded and preposterous. We firmly believe that this was a precalculated, preplanned attack that was carried out specifically to attack the U.S. consulate."  Anti-militia demonstrations On September 21, about 30,000 Libyans marched through Benghazi calling for support of the rule of law and for an end to the armed militias that had formed during the Libyan Civil War to oppose Colonel Gaddafi. After that war, the militias failed to disband, and continually menaced the Libyan government and populace. Carrying signs with slogans such as "We Want Justice For Chris" and "Libya Lost a Friend", the protestors stormed several militia headquarters, including that of Ansar al-Sharia, an Islamist militia who some allege played a role in the attack on U.S. diplomatic personnel on September 11. At least 10 people were killed and dozens more wounded as militiamen fired on demonstrators at the headquarters of Sahaty Brigade, a pro-government militia "operating under the authority of the ministry of defence". By early next morning, the protestors had forced militia members to flee and seized control of a number of compounds, releasing four prisoners found inside. Protesters burnt a car and a building of at least one facility, and looted weapons. The militia compounds and many weapons were handed over to Libya's national army in what "appeared to be part of a coordinated sweep of militia bases by police, government troops and activists" following the earlier demonstrations. Some militia members accused the protestors of being Gaddafi loyalists, looking to disarm the militias in the wake of the revolution.  Government campaign to disband militias On September 23, taking advantage of the growing momentum and rising anger against the militias evinced in the earlier anti-militia demonstrations, the Libyan president declared that all unauthorized militias had 48 hours to either disband or come under government control. The government also mandated that bearing arms in public was now illegal, as were armed checkpoints. Handling the militias had been difficult as the government had been forced to rely on some of them for protection and security. According to a Libyan interviewed in Tripoli, the government gained the ability to push back against the militias because of a "mandate of the people". On September 24, the government commenced with a raid on a former military base held by a rogue infantry militia. Across the country, militias began surrendering to the government. The government formed a "National Mobile Force" for the purpose of evicting illegal militias. On the same day as the declaration, various militias in Misrata held meetings, ultimately deciding to submit to the government's authority, and handed over various public facilities they had been holding, including the city's three main jails, which were handed over to the authority of the Ministry of Justice. Hours before the announcement, in Derna, the two main militias (one of them Ansar al-Sharia) active in the city both withdrew, leaving both their five military bases behind. Hundreds of Libyans, mainly former rebel fighters, gathered in the city centers of Tripoli and Benghazi to hand over their weapons to the government on September 29. The campaign has been less successful in other areas, such as the remote Nafusa Mountains, inhabited by the Nafusi-speaking Berber minority, where the Emirati news agency The National reported on September 23 that arms were being hoarded. The National also reported arms being hoarded in Misrata, despite simultaneous reporting by other outlets that militias were surrendering in Misrata.  U.S. government response On September 12, U.S. President Barack Obama condemned "this outrageous attack" on U.S. diplomatic facilities and stated that "since our founding, the United States has been a nation that respects all faiths. We reject all efforts to denigrate the religious beliefs of others." After referring to "the 9/11 attacks", "troops who made the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq and Afghanistan", and "then last night, we learned the news of this attack in Benghazi" the President urged, "As Americans, let us never, ever forget that our freedom is only sustained because there are people who are willing to fight for it, to stand up for it, and in some cases, lay down their lives for it." He then went on to say,  No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character, or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for. Today we mourn four more Americans who represent the very best of the United States of America. We will not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done for this terrible act. And make no mistake, justice will be done. After the attack, Obama ordered that security be increased at all such facilities worldwide. A 50-member Marine FAST team was sent to Libya to "bolster security". It was announced that the FBI would investigate the possibility of the attack being planned. U.S. officials said surveillance over Libya would increase, including the use of unmanned drones, to "hunt for the attackers". Secretary of State Clinton also made a statement on September 12, describing the perpetrators as "heavily armed militants" and "a small and savage group—not the people or government of Libya". She also reaffirmed "America's commitment to religious tolerance" and said "Some have sought to justify this vicious behavior, along with the protest that took place at our Embassy in Cairo yesterday, as a response to inflammatory material posted on the Internet," but whether true or not, that was not a justification for violence. The State Department had previously identified embassy and personnel security as a major challenge in its budget and priorities report. On September 12, it was reported that the United States Navy dispatched two Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, USS McFaul and USS Laboon, to the Libyan coast. The destroyers are equipped with Tomahawk cruise missiles. American UAVs were also sent to fly over Libya to search for the perpetrators of the attack. In a speech on September 13, in Golden, Colorado, President Obama paid tribute to the four Americans "killed in an attack on our diplomatic post in Libya", stating,  We enjoy our security and our liberty because of the sacrifices they make ... I want people around the world to hear me: To all those who would do us harm, no act of terror will go unpunished. It will not dim the light of the values that we proudly present to the rest of the world. In his press briefing on September 14, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney told reporters that "we don't have and did not have concrete evidence to suggest that this [the Benghazi attack] was not in reaction to the film." He went on to say:  There was no intelligence that in any way could have been acted on to prevent these attacks. It is—I mean, I think the DNI spokesman was very declarative about this that the report is false. The report suggested that there was intelligence that was available prior to this that led us to believe that this facility would be attacked, and that is false ... We have no information to suggest that it was a preplanned attack. The unrest we've seen around the region has been in reaction to a video that Muslims, many Muslims find offensive. And while the violence is reprehensible and unjustified, it is not a reaction to the 9/11 anniversary that we know of, or to U.S. policy. On September 14, the remains of the slain Americans were returned to the U.S.; President Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton attended the ceremony. In her remarks Clinton said, "One young woman, her head covered and her eyes haunted with sadness, held up a handwritten sign that said 'Thugs and killers don't represent Benghazi nor Islam.' The President of the Palestinian Authority, who worked closely with Chris when he served in Jerusalem, sent me a letter remembering his energy and integrity, and deploring—and I quote—'an act of ugly terror.'" She went on to say: "We've seen the heavy assault on our post in Benghazi that took the lives of those brave men." On September 16, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice appeared on five major interview shows to discuss the attacks. Prior to her appearance, Rice was provided with "talking points" from a CIA memo, which stated:  The currently available information suggests that the demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the U.S. Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the U.S. diplomatic post in Benghazi and subsequently its annex. There are indications that extremists participated in the violent demonstrations. This assessment may change as additional information is collected and analyzed and as currently available information continues to be evaluated. The investigation is ongoing, and the U.S. government is working with Libyan authorities to bring to justice those responsible for the deaths of U.S. citizens.  Using these talking points as a guide, Rice stated:  Based on the best information we have to date, what our assessment is as of the present is in fact what began spontaneously in Benghazi as a reaction to what had transpired some hours earlier in Cairo where, of course, as you know, there was a violent protest outside of our embassy—sparked by this hateful video. But soon after that spontaneous protest began outside of our consulate in Benghazi, we believe that it looks like extremist elements, individuals, joined in that— in that effort with heavy weapons of the sort that are, unfortunately, readily now available in Libya post-revolution. And that it spun from there into something much, much more violent. We do not—we do not have information at present that leads us to conclude that this was premeditated or preplanned. I think it's clear that there were extremist elements that joined in and escalated the violence. Whether they were al Qaeda affiliates, whether they were Libyan-based extremists or al Qaeda itself I think is one of the things we'll have to determine. Since Rice's five television appearances, there have been persistent accusations that she had intentionally and repeatedly lied. However, none of the ten Benghazi investigations determined she had. For example, the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee "did not conclude that Rice or any other government official acted in bad faith or intentionally misled the American people," according to the Associated Press. In a White House press briefing on September 18, press secretary Jay Carney explained the attack to reporters: "I'm saying that based on information that we—our initial information, and that includes all information—we saw no evidence to back up claims by others that this was a preplanned or premeditated attack; that we saw evidence that it was sparked by the reaction to this video. And that is what we know thus far based on the evidence, concrete evidence." On September 20, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney answered a question about an open hearing with the National Counterterrorism Center Director, Matthew G. Olsen, which referenced which extremist groups might have been involved. Carney said, "It is, I think, self-evident that what happened in Benghazi was a terrorist attack. Our embassy was attacked violently, and the result was four deaths of American officials. So, again, that's self-evident." On the same day, during an appearance on Univision, a Spanish-language television network in the United States, President Obama stated, "What we do know is that the natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video were used as an excuse by extremists to see if they can also directly harm U.S. interests." Also on September 20, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton gave a classified briefing to U.S. Senators, which several Republican attendees criticized. According to the article, senators were angered at the Obama administration's rebuff of their attempts to learn details of the Benghazi attack, only to see that information published the next day in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.  On September 24, advertisements condemning an anti-Islam video appeared on Pakistani television. The television ads in Pakistan (marked with the U.S. Embassy seal) feature clips of President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton during press appearances in Washington in which they condemned the video. Their words were subtitled in Urdu. On September 25, in an address before the United Nations General Assembly President Obama stated, "The attacks on our civilians in Benghazi were attacks on America ... And there should be no doubt that we will be relentless in tracking down the killers and bringing them to justice." He referred to Innocence of Muslims as "a crude and disgusting video [that] sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world". He said, "I have made it clear that the United States government had nothing to do with this video, and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our common humanity." He further stated, "There is no video that justifies an attack on an Embassy." On September 26, Clinton acknowledged a possible link between Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb and the Benghazi attack. On September 28, a spokesman for the Director of National Intelligence stated,  In the immediate aftermath, there was information that led us to assess that the attack began spontaneously following protests earlier that day at our embassy in Cairo. We provided that initial assessment to Executive Branch officials and members of Congress ... As we learned more about the attack, we revised our initial assessment to reflect new information indicating that it was a deliberate and organized terrorist attack carried out by extremists. It remains unclear if any group or person exercised overall command and control of the attack, and if extremist group leaders directed their members to participate. Also on September 28, it was reported that Nakoula Basseley Nakoula, the producer of the Innocence of Muslims video, had been arrested in California and was being held without bail for alleged probation violations stemming from a 2010 bank fraud conviction. On CNN's State of the Union with Candy Crowley on September 30, Crowley observed that "Friday we got the administration's sort of definitive statement that this now looks as though it was a pre-planned attack by a terrorist group, some of whom were at least sympathetic to al Qaeda," and asked the senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Senator John McCain, "why do you think and are you bothered that it has taken them this long from September 11th to now to get to this conclusion?" to which McCain replied that "it interferes with the depiction that the administration is trying to convey that al Qaeda is on the wane ... how else could you trot out our U.N. ambassador to say this was a spontaneous demonstration? ... It was either willful ignorance or abysmal intelligence to think that people come to spontaneous demonstrations with heavy weapons, mortars, and the attack goes on for hours." On October 4, 22 days after the attack, FBI investigators were finally allowed access to the scene of the attack. The crime scene was not secured during that time; neither American nor Libyan investigators were able to secure the scene. The hearing testimony revealed that "Hicks argued that Rice's comments so insulted the Libyan president—since they contradicted his Sept. 16 claims that the attack was premeditated—that it slowed the FBI's investigation. 'President Magariaf was insulted in front of his own people, in front of the world. His credibility was reduced,' Hicks said, adding that the president was apparently 'still steamed' two weeks later." To assist the Libyan government in disbanding extremist groups, the Obama administration allocated $8 million to begin building an elite Libyan commando force over the next year. In the Presidential debate of October 16, 2012, between President Obama and Mitt Romney, Romney claimed that "it took the president 14 days before he called the attack in Benghazi an act of terror." President Obama responded, "The day after the attack, governor, I stood in the Rose Garden and I told the American people and the world that we are going to find out exactly what happened," Obama said. "That this was an act of terror, and I also said that we're going to hunt down those who committed this crime." When Romney challenged Obama, asking "You said in the Rose Garden the day after the attack, it was an act of terror. It was not a spontaneous demonstration, is that what you're saying?" the President responded, "Please proceed, governor" and "Get the transcript." The moderator of the debate, Candy Crowley, agreed, stating "He—he did call it an act of terror." A CNN analysis stated that Obama had indeed referred to the incident as a "terrorist attack", but that Romney was correct in noting that the administration delayed in conclusively stating that the attack was not a spontaneous protest related to the video. A May 14, 2013 Fact Checker by Glenn Kesler said that "Immediately after the attack, the president three times used the phrase "act of terror" in public statements." On October 19, 2012, House Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA) came under fire from intelligence officials in the Obama administration when he posted, on a public website, 166 pages of sensitive but unclassified State Department communications related to Libya. According to officials, the release of the unredacted documents compromised the identities of several Libyans working with the U.S. government and placed their lives in danger. On CBS's Face the Nation on October 28, Senator John McCain (R-AZ) stated that "this is either a massive cover-up or incompetence" and suggested that it was a scandal worse than Watergate. McCain stated, "we know that there were tapes, recordings inside the consulate during this fight ... So the president went on various shows, despite what he said in the Rose Garden, about terrorist acts, he went on several programs, including The View, including Letterman, including before the UN where he continued to refer, days later, many days later, to this as a spontaneous demonstration because of a hateful video. We know that is patently false. What did the president know? When did he know it? And what did he do about it?" CBS News reported earlier on October 24 that the video of the assault was not recovered until 20 days after the attack, from the more than 10 security cameras at the compound. In a radio interview October 29, 2012, Senator John McCain said that the surveillance tapes had been classified top secret. Secretary Clinton was scheduled to testify before Congress on December 20 about the attack. On December 15, it was reported that she had become dehydrated from the flu, fainted, and sustained a concussion. Consequently, her testimony was postponed. The incident prompted Republican Rep. Allen West to claim that the illness was a ruse intended to avoid testifying. Former UN Ambassador John Bolton called the concussion a "diplomatic illness". On January 23, 2013, during testimony at a Senate hearing on Benghazi, Clinton engaged in a heated exchange with Senator Ron Johnson. When Johnson pressed her to explain why, in the immediate aftermath, no one from the State Department had asked American evacuees if there had been a protest before the attack, Clinton replied:  With all due respect, the fact is, we had four dead Americans! Was it because of a protest or was it because of guys out for a walk one night and decided they'd go kill some Americans?! What difference, at this point, does it make?! It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, Senator. Now, honestly, I will do my best to answer your questions about this, but the fact is that people were trying in real time to get to the best information. The [Intelligence Community] has a process, I understand, going with the other committees to explain how these talking points came out. But you know, to be clear, it is, from my perspective, less important today looking backwards as to why these militants decided they did it than to find them and bring them to justice, and then maybe we'll figure out what was going on in the meantime. In March 2013, Representative Duncan D. Hunter introduced legislation into the 113th Congress to authorize awarding of Congressional Gold Medals to Doherty and Woods for their actions that led to their deaths. In April 2013, the Pentagon announced the activation of a USMC quick response force for North Africa that would use the range and speed of the Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey to be able to respond to similar events in the future. Spain authorized the basing of the quick response force at Morón Air Base near Seville, for a temporary one-year term. On May 13, 2013, President Obama stated during a news conference, "The day after it happened, I acknowledged that this was an act of terrorism." This claim was disputed by Glenn Kessler of The Washington Post in a "Fact Checker" article, which explored at length the difference in meaning between the phrases "act of terror" and "act of terrorism." In the article, Kessler accused Obama of "revisionist history" for stating he had called the attack an "act of terrorism" when in fact he had used the term "act of terror", observing that Obama had gone out of his way to avoid calling the incident an "act of terrorism" or blame the ambassador's death on terrorism. On July 30, 2013, Rep. Ed Royce (R, CA-39) introduced the Department of State Operations and Embassy Security Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2014 (H.R. 2848; 113th Congress). Supporters argued,   This bill advances efforts to improve the physical infrastructure at posts overseas to comply with the highest standards of protection; to increase training for those responsible for guarding our compounds and personnel; to put in place procedures that respond appropriately to threats, reducing the chances of another attack like that suffered in Benghazi, Libya; to review the policies and procedures of the Bureau of Diplomatic Security; to authorize the use of best value contracting at high risk, high threat posts; to authorize security improvements at soft targets; and to provide for security enhancements in line with Accountability Review Board recommendations. Critics including Republican Party members accused the Obama White House and State Department of overemphasizing or fabricating the role of Islamic anger over the anti-Islamic movie Innocence of Muslims and alleged that the administration was reluctant to label the attack as "terrorist". Representative Mike Rogers (R-MI), chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, who on September 13 said that the attacks had all the hallmarks of a coordinated attack by al-Qaeda, has questioned whether there were any protests at all in Benghazi, saying: "I have seen no information that shows that there was a protest going on as you have seen around any other embassy at the time. It was clearly designed to be an attack." According to critics, the consulate site should have been secured better both before and after the attack. GOP legislators also took issue with delays in the investigation, which CNN attributed to "bureaucratic infighting" between the FBI, Justice, and State. On September 26, Senator Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia) said he "cannot believe that the FBI is not on the ground yet". Testimony from top U.S. commanders after the attack revealed that the military was unprepared for conflict across Africa and the Middle East. No attack aircraft had been placed on high alert on September 11, the anniversary of the September 11 attacks in 2001, and the closest fighter planes to trouble spots in North Africa were based in Aviano, Italy. The fighter planes based in Aviano were unarmed and no aerial refueling planes were within a 10-hour flight to the base. In addition, no AC-130 gunships were within a 10-hour flight of Libya, and their crews did not reach a staging base in Italy until 19 hours after the attack began. With the attack and subsequent criticism occurring in the last two months of the 2012 U.S. presidential election, Democrats and liberal media figures accused Republicans of politicizing the attacks in an unprecedented manner. Romney was accused by the Obama campaign of trying to exploit the attacks for political gain, leading the father of Ambassador Stevens to call for both campaigns to avoid making it a campaign issue. Robert Gates, former CIA director and Defense Secretary under Republican Presidents and then President Obama, said that some critics of the government's response have a "cartoonish" view of military capabilities. He stated that he would have responded with equal caution given the risks and the lack of intelligence on the ground, and that American forces require planning and preparation, which the circumstances did not allow for. President Obama called the criticism a "sideshow" and later accused Congress of "taking its eye off the ball" on the subject of the economy and focusing on "phony scandals". White House Spokesman Jay Carney later specified that the criticism of the administration's handling of the Benghazi attacks was one of those "phony scandals". On December 10, 2014, upon publication of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence report on Benghazi, Committee Chairman Mike Rogers wrote in an op-ed piece, "The Obama administration's White House and State Department actions before, during, and after the Benghazi terrorist attack on September 11, 2012, ranged from incompetence to deplorable political manipulation in the midst of an election season." However, immediately upon release of the committee's report on November 21, 2014, the Associated Press reported that the Committee did not conclude that any "government official acted in bad faith or intentionally misled the American people." For actions in Benghazi during the attack, Marine Gunnery Sergeant Tate Jolly was awarded the Navy Cross, and Army Master Sergeant David R. Halbruner was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. In January 2020 Mustafa al-Imam, a Libyan man accused of scouting for the Benghazi attackers, was sentenced to over 19 years in prison by a federal Washington judge.  U.S. media response The Center for Media and Public Affairs at George Mason University described the conclusions of an unpublished study on November 2, 2012. Based on a textual analysis that tallied the occurrence of certain words and phrases in news reports during the days immediately following the attack, the study concluded that leading newspapers in the U.S. framed the attack in terms of a spontaneous protest over the anti-Islamic film Innocence of Muslims as framed by the Obama administration's version, four times as often as a planned terrorist attack, which was the Republican version. However, the 2014 final report by the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee found that during the days immediately following the attack there was confusion among intelligence analysts as to the origin of the attack, leading to an initial assessment that it was the spontaneous outcome from a protest. Obama administration officials, most notably Susan Rice, were provided this early assessment and repeated it to media outlets, only to be later contradicted as further intelligence assessments were made. None of the ten investigations into Benghazi found that any senior Obama administration officials had acted improperly. On September 13, Rachel Maddow, during her show on MSNBC, stated:  An organized attack. Anybody who tells you that what happened to our ambassador and our consulate in Libya was as a result of a protest over an offensive movie, you should ask them why they think that. That's the first version of events we heard. That does not seem to explain what happened that night or by the facts or the more facts we get. On the edition of October 24 of Fox News' Special Report with Bret Baier, syndicated columnist Charles Krauthammer claimed that a State Department e-mail, which passed along a report from Embassy Tripoli that Ansar al-Sharia had claimed responsibility for the attack on Facebook and Twitter, proved that the White House knew of terrorist connections to the attack almost immediately. However, the day after the Benghazi attack, Ansar al-Sharia issued a statement saying that the attack was in part "a spontaneous popular uprising in response to what happened by the West," which was an apparent reference to the Innocence of Muslims video. Conservative pundit Jonah Goldberg of the National Review stated that on NBC's Meet the Press, host David Gregory changed the subject when a guest raised the subject of the Benghazi attack, saying, "Let's get to Libya a little bit later", but never returned to the subject. On November 26, 2012, journalist Tom Ricks went on Fox News' Happening Now with Jon Scott to discuss the attack. While being interviewed on Fox News by Jon Scott, Ricks accused Fox News of being "extremely political" in its coverage of the attack and said that "Fox was operating as a wing of the Republican Party." Ricks accused the network of covering the story more than it needed to be. The interview was cut short and Ricks and the interview was not mentioned or covered by Fox News again. Fox News was subsequently criticized for cutting the interview short. In an interview with the Associated Press, Fox News' White House correspondent Ed Henry suggested that he thought Benghazi was being covered too much by the network. Henry said, "We've had the proper emphasis, but I would not be so deluded to say that some of our shows, some of our commentators, have covered it more than it needed to be covered."  Investigations There were ten investigations into the Benghazi matter: one by the FBI; one by an independent board commissioned by the State Department; two by Democrat-controlled Senate Committees; and six by Republican-controlled House Committees. After the first five Republican investigations found no evidence of wrongdoing by senior Obama administration officials, Republicans in 2014 opened a sixth investigation, the House Select Committee on Benghazi, chaired by Trey Gowdy. This investigation also failed to find any evidence of wrongdoing by senior Obama administration officials. A possible political motive for the investigation was revealed on September 29, 2015, when Republican House majority leader Kevin McCarthy, then vying to become Speaker of the House, told Sean Hannity on Fox News that the investigation was part of a "strategy to fight and win,' adding "Everybody thought Hillary Clinton was unbeatable, right? But we put together a Benghazi special committee, a select committee. What are her numbers today? Her numbers are dropping." Shortly after the Benghazi attack, Secretary of State Clinton commissioned an independent Accountability Review Board to investigate, chaired by retired ambassador Thomas R. Pickering with vice-chair retired Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Michael Mullen. The Board released their final report on December 19, 2012. It made 29 recommendations to the State Department on how to improve its operations, which Clinton pledged to implement. As part of this investigation, four career State Department officials were criticized for denying requests for additional security at the facility prior to the attack. By the end of 2012, Eric J. Boswell, the Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security, resigned under pressure, while three others were suspended. None of the other Benghazi investigations identified wrongdoing by any individuals. The House Select Committee on Benghazi's final report was released on June 28, 2016, and the committee closed down five months later. It criticized the actions and speed of response of the State Department, and the Defense Department, leading up to and during the attacks in Benghazi. No further public investigations have been conducted since. The findings of the two-year investigation by the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee, the fifth of six Republican investigations, was summarized by the Associated Press on November 21, 2014:  A two-year investigation by the Republican-controlled House Intelligence Committee has found that the CIA and the military acted properly in responding to the 2012 attack on a U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, and asserted no wrongdoing by Obama administration appointees. Debunking a series of persistent allegations hinting at dark conspiracies, the investigation of the politically charged incident determined that there was no intelligence failure, no delay in sending a CIA rescue team, no missed opportunity for a military rescue, and no evidence the CIA was covertly shipping arms from Libya to Syria. In the immediate aftermath of the attack, intelligence about who carried it out and why was contradictory, the report found. That led Susan Rice, then U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, to inaccurately assert that the attack had evolved from a protest, when in fact there had been no protest. But it was intelligence analysts, not political appointees, who made the wrong call, the committee found. The report did not conclude that Rice or any other government official acted in bad faith or intentionally misled the American people. ... In the aftermath of the attacks, Republicans criticized the Obama administration and its then-secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is expected to run for president in 2016. People in and out of government have alleged that a CIA response team was ordered to "stand down" after the State Department compound came under attack, that a military rescue was nixed, that officials intentionally downplayed the role of al-Qaida figures in the attack, and that Stevens and the CIA were involved in a secret operation to spirit weapons out of Libya and into the hands of Syrian rebels. None of that is true, according to the House Intelligence Committee report.  The report did find, however, that the State Department facility where Stevens and Smith were killed was not well-protected, and that State Department security agents knew they could not defend it from a well-armed attack. Previous reports have found that requests for security improvements were not acted upon in Washington.  FOIA requests Freedom of Information Act requests have been made since the attack. The conservative foundation Judicial Watch filed a FOIA request to the Department of State on December 19, 2012. An acknowledgement of the request was received by Judicial Watch on January 4, 2013. When the State Department failed to respond to the request by February 4, 2013, Judicial Watch filed a lawsuit, which resulted in seven photographs being delivered on June 6, 2013. Three of the photographs show Arabic-language spray paint graffiti. On May 30, 2013, it was reported that the Republican National Committee filed a FOIA for "any and all emails or other documents containing the terms 'Libya' and/or 'Benghazi' dated between September 11, 2012 and November 7, 2012 directed from or to U.S. Department of State employees originating from, or addressed to, persons whose email addresses end in either 'barackobama.com' or 'dnc.org'". On April 18, 2014, the conservative group Judicial Watch released more than 100 pages of documents obtained through a FOIA lawsuit. One email, dated September 14, 2012, with a subject line "RE PREP CALL with Susan: Saturday at 4:00 pm ET", was from deputy national security advisor for strategic communications Rhodes stated: "Goals: ... To underscore that these protests are rooted in an Internet video, and not a broader failure of policy..." According to another e-mail obtained by Judicial Watch, when asked about whether the attack was linked to the Mohammad video, State Department spokesperson Victoria Nuland said she "could not confirm a connect as we simply don't know—and we won't know until there is an investigation". According to The Wall Street Journal, the e-mail was written to prepare U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice for her appearances on Sunday news shows two days later, and it "sets out the Administration's view of the cause of the Benghazi attacks". John Dickerson of Slate says the e-mail refers to the worldwide protests against Innocence of Muslims and not the Benghazi attack.  See also Attack on the United States embassy in Baghdad Ambassadors of the United States killed in office International response to Innocence of Muslims protests 13 Hours – 2014 book about the attack 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi – 2016 film about the attack based on the book  References External links The House Republican Investigation of Benghazi: single-source site of all the unclassified information and findings from investigations into the attacks Archived April 8, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Interactive Map of Attack at The New York Times Map of Consulate grounds Background Conference Call With Senior State Department Officials, Washington, DC, October 9, 2012 Timeline of the Libya rescue effort, MilitaryTimes.com, November 2, 2012 What the Obama administration has said about the Libya attack, timeline by Michael Pearson, CNN, October 17, 2012 Accountability Review Board (ARB) Report on Benghazi Attack Criminal Complaint Against Ahamed Abu Khatallah in U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia Congressional hearings and reports The Security Failures of Benghazi: Hearing before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Second Session, October 10, 2012 Benghazi and Beyond, Part I: What Went Wrong on September 11, 2012 and How to Prevent It From Happening at Other Frontline Posts: Hearing before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Second Session, November 15, 2012 Benghazi and Beyond, Part II: The Report of the Accountability Review Board: Hearing before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Second Session, December 20, 2012 Benghazi: The Attacks and the Lessons Learned: Hearing before the Committee on Foreign Relations, United States Senate, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, Second Session, December 20, 2012 Terrorist Attack in Benghazi: The Secretary of State's View: Hearing before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, January 23, 2013 Department of Defense's Response to the Attack on U.S. Facilities in Benghazi, Libya, and the Findings of its Internal Review Following the Attack: Hearing Before the Committee on Armed Services, United States Senate, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, February 7, 2013 Benghazi: Exposing Failure and Recognizing Courage: Hearing before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, May 8, 2013 Benghazi: Where is the State Department Accountability? Hearing before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, September 18, 2013 Reviews of the Benghazi Attacks and Unanswered Questions: Hearing before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, September 19, 2013 Report of the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Review of the Terrorist Attacks on U.S. Facilities in Benghazi, Libya, September 11–12, 2012 Together with Additional Views, January 15, 2014 Hearing 1: Hearing before the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attacks in Benghazi, Libya, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, Second Session, held in Washington, DC, September 17, 2014 Hearing 2: Hearing before the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attacks in Benghazi, Libya, House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, Second Session, held in Washington, DC, December 10, 2014 Hearing 3: Hearing before the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attacks in Benghazi, House of Representatives, One Hundred Fourteenth Congress, First Session, held in Washington, DC, January 27, 2015 Hearing 4: Hearing before the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attacks in Benghazi, House of Representatives, One Hundred Fourteenth Congress, First Session, held in Washington, DC, October 22, 2015

Yadurwadi is a village situated at the banks of  the Krishna River in Belagavi district in the southern state of Karnataka, India. Sugarcane is a main source of income for the people here.  Farmers also grow soybeans in the monsoon season and wheat in the winter season. Yadurwadi is the part of Yadur Gram Panchayat. Neighbouring villages are Chandur, Shahapur, Khotwadi, Hale Yadur, Hosa Yadur and Khidrapur  Transportation Road The village is about 1.5 kilometres (0.93 mi) from State Highway 12. There are both public and private buses running on State Highway 12. The village has direct bus to Chikodi every two hours during the daytime.  Railway Near by railway stations are at Raibag Miraj and Ugar.  Air Air travel is available from nearby airports at Belagavi, Hubli,  and Kolhapur.  "Laxmi Jatre" The village fair Every year at the end of May or in June, Goddess Laxmi Devi Jatre Is celebrated for two days. Friday is the main Day of the Jatre, People enjoy mango juice On Jatre Days.  Events In Jatre Tuesday Akshata On Goddess Laxmi.  Friday Morning 11.00 AM Naivedde. Night 10.00 PM Pallakki.  Saturday Morning 9.00 AM Sharayattu. Evening 04.30 PM Jangi Kusti  Krishna River The village is situated on the banks of Krishna River One of the India's largest river and therefore never faces any water scarcity.  CROPS 1.Sugar Cane 2.Soyabean 3.All types of vegetables 4.Bengal Gram 5. Hesar Kalu 4.Udad  Flood Yadurwadi is surrounded by the Krishna River from all four sides. During monsoon season the water level rises in the river. In the year (2019), & 2021  Due to heavy flood 50 % of village affected by flood water. 60 % of the village was evacuated. In 2005, a monsoon caused heavy flooding and the village was fully surrounded by water. People were unable to go out from the village. But water never entered inside the village and Village remained safe.   == References ==

Shine Louise Houston is a filmmaker and the founding director and producer of Pink and White Productions, an independent production company creating queer pornography in San Francisco. Houston makes feature-length pornographic films in addition to producing, directing, and shooting hundreds of installments for her queer porn membership site CrashPadSeries.com. Houston distributes her own work and that of other indie adult filmmakers through PinkLabel.tv, catering to different sexual communities.  Significance Shine Louise Houston's films have screened at film festivals around the world. Houston speaks widely on issues of representation and sexual freedom of expression. She is heavily involved with the feminist and queer art community as well as doing sexual health work and sex worker activism. In her work, Houston features a diverse range of ethnicities, body types, non-conforming genders, and sexual identities Houston has been written about widely in numerous publications on the intersections of race, pornography, and desire. Ariane Cruz, a professor of women's studies at Penn State, writes in her book, The Color of Kink,  [Houston's] films showcase stunning cinematography, inventive narratives, and incredibly diverse performers with respect to race, gender, and body. Houston's work critically queers representations of black [women's] sexual desire, offering modes of pleasure outside hegemonic, heteronormative representations of black female sexuality in pornography. Critics have stated that Houston's work counters inauthentic representations of women, trans, gender nonconforming, and queer folks of color's sexuality and desire in mainstream porn. They also feel that Houston incorporates her own pleasure and desire as a black women into her pornography acting as a self-aware voyeur and camera operator.  Education Houston received a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in Film from the San Francisco Art Institute.  Career After graduating, Houston worked at a Good Vibrations sex shop in the San Francisco Bay area for five years. While at Good Vibrations, Houston found an underserved need for queer-made pornography when customers asked for recommendations on the search for representation of their own sexual communities. Community demand inspired Houston to band together with friends to make their own queer pornography. Houston founded Pink and White Productions and in 2008 launched the queer pornography distribution site CrashPadSeries.com. The company's first queer porn feature, Crash Pad, starring Jiz Lee, establishes the location of all the subsequent CrashPadSeries episodes. The Crash Pad is an apartment located in San Francisco dedicated to mutual pleasure based queer sex and Houston acts as Key Keeper to the Crash Pad. Houston incorporates into the scene her presence behind the camera via her own kink, and participation, as a voyeur. In the feature SuperFreak she stars as the ghost of Rick James.  The ghost possesses people on a mission to turn the whole world into SuperFreaks having great sex. All models in Pink and White Productions videos seek them out, and Houston organizes scenes around the model's personal fantasies. CrashPadSeries.com debuts episodic, reality-based queer pornography videos. The site is set up like a blog, featuring photos and identity profiles of the stars to make visible the alternate gender identities and sexualities represented in their videos. As of 2017, Houston is in post-production for their next feature, Snapshot, a horror film dedicated to complicating the limited "coming out" narrative predominantly featured in mainstream media.  Featured publications A Taste for Brown Sugar: Black Women in Pornography by Mireille Miller-Young Black Female Sexualities edited by Trimiko Melancon Freeing Ourselves: A guide to Health and Self Love for Brown Bois by The Brown Boi Project Porn After Porn, "Mighty Real," Shine Louise Houston, Sept 2014 (Reprinted with Permission in XBIZ Fall 2014 Issue) Porn for Pussies: Representations of Queer Female Sexuality in Shine Louise Houston's Pornography by Engel Nicole, Presented at the National Women's Studies Association  Influences Annie Sprinkle Joani Blank Rick James Radley Metzger Jim Jarmusch Alfred Hitchcock Michelangelo Antonioni  References External links Official website  Shine Louise Houston at IMDb

The Cupola House is a historic house museum in Edenton, North Carolina. Built in 1756–1758 (as determined by dendrochronology), it is the second oldest building in Edenton, and the only known surviving example in the American South of a "jutt," or overhanging second floor. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1970.  Description and history The Cupola House is a two-story gable-roofed house with external brick end chimneys. It is now covered with weatherboards; recent research suggests it may originally have been covered with rusticated siding, similar to the siding still in place on the cupola. Mount Vernon and the Redwood Library have similar siding. The roof is covered with wooden shingles. Two main rooms flank a central passage, which was an uncommon layout in colonial North Carolina but was not rare in other colonies. The unique aspect of the house is its combination of a cupola with an overhanging upper story. The cupola is octagon-shaped and covered in wood that has been cut to imitate stonework. Inside, the house features elaborate finishing which denotes the "social hierarchy" of the rooms. The stair brackets of the staircase in the central hallway feature carved floral decorations and moldings, while the doors leading to the two main rooms are surmounted by pediments. The house includes ornate mantels and woodwork on first and second floors. The cupola is reached from the attic by a "barrel stair," a spiral stair framed within vertical wood sheathing that looks like a large barrel. The house lot was originally more spacious, extending to Edenton Bay. The property was owned by a succession of merchants, including Richard Sanderson, a shipowner. Francis Corbin, the Earl of Granville's land agent, bought the lot in 1756 and built the current residence. The Cupola House is one of several sites of historic Edenton.  Other historic sites open for tour include the James Iredell House, Roanoke River Light, Barker House, Chowan County Courthouse and St. Paul's Church.  See also List of National Historic Landmarks in North Carolina National Register of Historic Places listings in Chowan County, North Carolina  References External links Cupola House Association Historic Edenton – arranges tours of Cupola House Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) No. NC-2, "Cupola House, 408 South Broad Street, Edenton, Chowan County, NC", 13 photos, 15 measured drawings, 5 data pages

nCUBE was a series of parallel computing computers from the company of the same name. Early generations of the hardware used a custom microprocessor. With its final generations of servers, nCUBE no longer designed custom microprocessors for machines, but used server-class chips manufactured by a third party in massively parallel hardware deployments, primarily for the purposes of on-demand video.  Company history Founding and early growth nCUBE was founded in 1983 in Beaverton, Oregon, by a group of Intel employees (Steve Colley, Bill Richardson, John Palmer, Doran Wilde, Dave Jurasek) frustrated by Intel's reluctance to enter the parallel computing market, though Intel released its iPSC/1 in the same year as the first nCUBE was released. In December 1985, the first generation of nCUBE's hypercube machines were released. The second generation (N2) was launched in June 1989. The third generation (N3) was released in 1995. The fourth generation (N4) was released in 1999. In 1988, Larry Ellison invested heavily in nCUBE and became the company's majority shareholder. The company's headquarters were relocated to Foster City, California, to be closer to the Oracle Corporation. In 1994, Ronald Dilbeck became CEO and set nCUBE on a fast track to an initial public offering.  Pivot to video In 1996, Ellison downsized nCUBE. Dilbeck left and Ellison took over as acting CEO, redirecting the company to become Oracle's Network Computer division. After the network computer diversion, nCUBE resumed development on video servers. nCUBE deployed its first VOD video server in Dubai's Burj al-Arab hotel. In 1999, nCUBE announced it was acquiring SkyConnect, a seven-year-old software company based in Louisville, Colorado, which developed digital advertising and VOD software for cable television. In the 1990s, nCUBE shifted its focus from the parallel computing market and, by 1999, had identified itself as a video on demand (VOD) solutions provider, shipping over 100 VOD systems delivering 17,000 streams and establishing a relationship with Microsoft TV. The company was once again on IPO fast-track, only to be halted again after the bursting of dot-com bubble.  Lawsuits and dot-com aftermath In 2000, SeaChange International filed a patent infringement suit against nCUBE, alleging its nCUBE MediaCube-4 product infringed on a SeaChange patent. A jury upheld the validity of SeaChange's patent and awarded damages. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit subsequently overturned the ruling on June 29, 2005. A separate lawsuit against SeaChange was filed by nCUBE in 2001 after it acquired the patents from Oracle's interactive television division. nCUBE claimed that SeaChange's video server offering violated its VOD patent on delivery to set-top boxes. nCUBE won the lawsuit and was awarded over $2 million in damages. SeaChange appealed, but the decision was upheld in 2004. On the business front, the dot-com bubble burst and ensuing recession as well as lawsuits meant that nCUBE was not doing well. In April 2001 nCUBE laid off 17% of its workforce and began closing offices (Foster City in 2002 and Louisville in 2003) to downsize and consolidate the company around its Beaverton manufacturing office. Also in 2002, Ellison stepped down and named former SkyConnect CEO Michael J. Pohl as CEO.  Acquired In January 2005, nCUBE was acquired by C-COR for approximately $89.5 million, with an SEC filing for the purchase in October 2004. In December 2007, C-COR was acquired by ARRIS.  Computer models nCUBE 10 One of the first nCUBE machines to be released was the nCUBE 10 of late 1985. It was originally called NCUBE/ten but the name morphed over time. These were based on a set of custom chips, where each compute node had a processor chip with 32-bit ALU, a 64-bit IEEE 754 FPU, special communication instructions, and 128 KB of RAM. A node delivered 2 MIPS, 500 kiloFLOPS (32-bit single precision), or 300 kiloFLOPS (64-bit double precision). There were 64 nodes per board. The host board, based on an Intel 80286, ran Axis, a custom Unix-like operating system, and each compute node ran a 4 KB kernel, Vertex. nCUBE 10 referred to the machine's ability to build an order-ten hypercube, supporting 1,024 CPUs in a single machine. Some of the modules would be used strictly for input/output, which included the nChannel storage control card, frame buffers, and the InterSystem card that allowed nCUBEs to be attached to each other. At least one host board needed to be installed, acting as the terminal driver. It could also partition the machine into "sub-cubes" and allocate them separately to different users.  nCUBE 2 For the second series the naming was changed, and they created the single-chip nCUBE 2 processor. This was otherwise similar to the nCUBE 10's CPU, but ran faster, at 25 MHz to provide about 7 MIPS and 3.5 megaFLOPS. This was later improved to 30 MHz in the 2S model. RAM was increased as well, with 4 to 16 MB of RAM on a "single wide" 1 inch x 3.5 inch module, with additional form factors of "double wide" (double modules), and quadruple that in a double wide, double side module. The I/O cards generally had less RAM, with different backend interfaces to support SCSI, HIPPI and other protocols.  Each nCUBE 2 CPU also included 13 I/O channels running at 20 Mbit/s. One of these was dedicated to I/O duties, while the other twelve were used as the interconnect system between CPUs. Each channel used wormhole routing to forward messages. The machines themselves were wired up as order-twelve hypercubes, allowing for up to 4,096 CPUs in a single machine. Each module ran a 200 KB microkernel called nCX, but the system now used a Sun Microsystems workstation as the front end and no longer needed the Host Controller. nCX included a parallel filesystem that could do 96-way striping for high performance. C and C++ languages are available, as is NQS, Linda, and Parasoft's Express. These were supported by an in-house compiler team. The largest nCUBE 2 system installed was at Sandia National Laboratories, a 1,024-CPU system that reached 1.91 gigaFLOPS in testing. In addition the nCX operating system, it also ran the SUNMOS lightweight kernel for research purposes. Researchers Robert Benner, John Gustafson and Gary Montry of the Parallel Processing Division of Sandia National Laboratory first won the Karp Prize of $100 and then won the first Gordon Bell Prize in 1987 using the nCUBE 10.  nCUBE-3 The nCUBE-3 CPU used a 64-bit arithmetic logic unit (ALU). Its improvements included a process-shrink to 0.5u, allowing the speed to be increased to 50 MHz (with plans for 66 and 100 MHz). The CPU was also superscalar and included 16 KB instruction and data caches, and a memory management unit for virtual memory support. Additional I/O links were added, with 2 dedicated to I/O and 16 for interconnects, allowing for up to 65,536 CPUs in the hypercube. The channels operated at 100 Mbit/s, due to use of 2-bit parallel lines, instead of the serial lines used previously. The nCUBE-3 also added fault-tolerant adaptive routing support, in addition to fixed routing, although in retrospect it's not entirely clear why. A fully loaded nCUBE-3 machine can use up to 65,536 processors, for 3 million MIPS and 6.5 teraFLOPS; the maximum memory would be 65 TB, with a network I/O capability of 24 TB/second. Thus, the processor is biased in terms of I/O, which is usually the limitation. The nChannel board provides 16 I/O channels, where each channel can support transfers at 20 MB/s. A microkernel was developed for the nCUBE-3 machine, but it was never completed, having been abandoned in favor of Plan 9's Transit operating system.  nCUBE-4 The nCUBE-4 marked the transition to commodity processors, with each node containing an Intel IA32 server-class CPU. The n4 also brought exclusive focus on video streaming rather than scientific applications. Each hub contained one hypercube node, one CPU, a pair of PCI buses, and up to 12 SCSI drives. The n4 was followed by the n4x, the n4x r2, and the n4x r3. These last two were based on the Serverworks chipset rather than the Intel ones. The nCUBE-5 was very similar to the n4 family but incorporated two hypercube nodes in each hub and only supported video streaming over Gigabit Ethernet. In 1999, nCUBE announced the MediaCUBE 4, which supported 80 simultaneous 3 Mbit/s streams to 44,000 simultaneous VOD streams, in concurrent MPEG-2, MPEG-1 and mid bit-rate encoding protocols.  See also Ametek INMOS transputer iWarp Parsytec SUPRENUM  References External links nCUBE Corporation (description of their machines)

Blue Man Vegas, LLC v. NLRB (529 F. 3d 417 (D.C. Cir. 2008), was a case of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, in which it held on whether the National Labor Relations Board had erred in its holding the bargaining unit proposed by the union was appropriate. The National Labor Relations Board had previously decided that Blue Man Vegas, LLC had engaged in unfair labor practices under the terms of the National Labor Relations Act through its refusing to bargain with the established union, which served as the bargaining representative.  Background, Procedural Posture, and Arguments Blue Man Vegas, LLC. served as the parent company and managing entity of the Las Vegas iteration of the Blue Man Group stage show. Apart from the eponymous blue men, which head the live show, the production was aided by professional musicians, and a stage crew, which was divided into several constituent departments. Most relevant to the case at hand are the professionals known as musical instrument technicians (MITs), who were responsible for maintaining the live instruments used by the Blue Men during the production, several of which are unique to the production itself. From 2000 to mid-2005, Blue Man Vegas was resident and performing at the Luxor Hotel and Casino. While at the Luxor, Blue Man Vegas employed the MITs directly, with the Luxor employing members of other stage crews, with which it entered into a collective bargaining agreement with the Union. Because of these differences in employment, there were resultant differences in the terms of employment between the MITs and members of the Luxor-employed stage crews. Among these were the practice of the MITs reporting to a representative of Blue Man Vegas, while the other stage crews reported to the Luxor; the status of the MITs as salaried employees where the others were paid an hourly wage, and a separate pre-performance sheet specifically for the MITs. In September 2005, Blue Man Vegas moved from the Luxor to a new venue at the Venetian Hotel and Casino. Following the move, Blue Man Vegas also transitioned to employing the stage crew members directly. Differences remained among the terms of employment among the MITs and stage crew employees, the most salient of which involved the payment of a salary for those MITs who had been with the company at the Luxor, while the stage crew members were still paid under an hourly wage. In March 2006, the labor union petitioned the National Labor Relations Board for its overseeing a representation election regarding the installation of a union composed of all of the stage crew employees with the exception of the MITs. Blue Man Vegas objected to this configuration, arguing that the MITs should also be included in the bargaining unit. In response to these respective arguments, the National Labor Relations Board's regional director, pursuant to §9(b) of the National Labor Relations Act, that the unit as proposed by the Union was appropriate and compelled the representation election. The Board denied a subsequent motion by Blue Man Vegas for review of the Regional Director's decision. The Union won the resulting representation election, with the regional director certifying the Union as the exclusive bargaining representative. In the month following the election, the Labor Board's regional director issued a complaint against Blue Man Vegas which alleged that the company had refused to bargain with the Union, breaching the duty to bargain in good faith in violation of §§8(a)(1) and 5 of the National Labor Relations Act. Blue Man Vegas conversely argued that it was not required to bargain with the union as the exclusion of the MITs within the unit made the union inappropriate. The Board issued summary judgment for the General Counsel, finding that Blue Man Vegas had or could have raised all representation issues prior to the union determination and certification by the Board and that Blue Man Vegas did not submit evidence previously unavailable to the involved parties. Blue Man Vegas petitioned the D.C. Circuit Court for review, with the National Labor Relations Board cross-appealing for enforcement of its prior decision.  Analysis and Holding Blue Man Vegas submitted three arguments for the court's analysis: (1) The Board applied the wrong standard to determine whether the proposed unit was appropriate; (2) the unit determination was not supported by substantial evidence; and (3) the exclusion of the MITs from the proposed unit created a "disfavored residual unit." Ginsburg writes in his opinion for the court that the Labor Board is primarily concerned with whether the employees within a proposed bargaining unit are members of a subjective "community of interest", and thus bargaining unit determinations should be made on a case-by-case basis, using the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act as a guide. With respect to this standard, the decisions of the National Labor Relations Board generally rely on a loose prima facie standard of appropriateness. The employer has a resultant and corresponding burden to show that said bargaining unit is "truly inappropriate," which may mean, for example, that there exists no legitimate reasoning for excluding certain individual or a class of employees from it. That is, if the excluded employees share a reasonable community of interest with included employees, there exists no legitimate reason for excluding them from the bargaining unit. Blue Man Vegas asserted that the Labor Board applied an incorrect standard in making its unit determination, effectively "accord[ing] controlling weight to the Union's extent of organization,", which would violate §9(c)(5) of the National Labor Relations Act. Relying on the aforementioned Community of Interest standard, and on a prior Board decision in Lundy Packing Co. (Lundy I), 314 N.L.R.B. 1042, 1043-44 (1994), Blue Man Vegas suggested that the Community of Interest Standard itself "unlawfully gives controlling weight to the union's extent of organization."   == References ==

De Struise Brouwers is a microbrewery located in Oostvleteren, Belgium.  Origin Owners of a nearby ostrich-raising farm in Lo-Reninge with accommodations for vacationers, Urbain Coutteau and Philippe Driessens developed an interest in making distinctive regional beers to serve to their guests. In 2001 they began doing so with help from local wine maker Carlo Grootaert, and this project eventually developed into its own independent commercial concern. Upon its inception in 2003, Struise produced beers at the Caulier brewery in northern Hainaut. Since 2006, they have been made at the Deca brewing facility in Woesten-Vleteren in West Flanders until 2014, after beers were brewed at their own brewhouse. The firm has reported that their own microbrewery and tasting room in Het Oud Schooltje (a renovated school building) located in Oostvleteren, is open and operational. The company takes its name from the historic Flemish word for ostrich, which also is a contemporary slang term meaning "tough". They render the name into English as "The Sturdy Brewers", and many of their labels feature ostriches, a trait they share with Dutch brewery Brouwerij 't IJ. Following industry trends made popular by American craft brewers, the brewery has recently ventured into stronger, more flavorful beers and also barrel-aging. They have also collaborated with other European artisan beer scene such as Denmark's Mikkeller, Estonia's Põhjala, fellow Belgians Picobrouwerij Alvinne and Brouwerij De Molen of the Netherlands, as well as American brewers. While their Black Albert was originally conceived in concert with United States-based Ebenezer's Pub, a joint effort to create a "Pannepot Cafe" in Brunswick, Maine was abandoned in May 2009.  Awards and recognition Craft beer fan rating website Ratebeer selected beers from DSB for 9 of their Top 100 Best Beers of Belgium in 2009. Struise was edged out for the #1 slot only by the venerable Trappist brewers of Westvleteren. In 2008, RateBeer declared Struise to be the best brewers in the world per their annual members' poll. This was met with mixed opinions in the world of beer enthusiasts. Many of those critical of the award cited the recent founding of the company as well as the fact that DSB did not own a brewing facility at the time. DSB also received 7 separate awards from Ratebeer in 2007, including accolades for the Aardmonnik and Pannepot.  Beers De Struise Brouwers Products  Struise Witte (5.0% ABV): a Belgian-style Witbier brewed with wheat and spices. Struise Rosse (6.0% ABV): an unfiltered and unpasteurized amber beer of high fermentation. Struiselensis (6.0% ABV): a blonde sour ale finished with wild Brettanomyces bruxellensis yeast. Pannepot (10.0% ABV): a strong dark ale whose name references a traditional style of fishing boat in the De Panne area. This beer is considered Struise' highest selling and most popular product. Pannepot Grand Reserva (10.0% ABV): a barrel-aged version of the Pannepot released each year and vintage dated. Aardmonnik (8.0% ABV): its name meaning literally "Earthmonk", a barrel-aged strong sour ale in the Flemish Oud bruin tradition with red wine-like character and earthy, chocolate-y notes. Tsjeeses (10.0% ABV): an oak-aged strong golden-colored ale. Playing on the similarity of the beer's name to "Jesus", the label depicts an intoxicated long-haired figure in a Santa hat. This caused it to be rejected by the American TTB. Tsjeeses Reserva (10.0% ABV): a barrel-aged version of the Tsjeeses. Outblack (10.0% ABV) Sint Amatus Vintage 2010 (10.5% ABV) Black Albert (13.0% ABV): a strong stout inspired by the British Imperial Stout tradition as revived by American microbrewers. Described as a "Belgian Royal Stout" and made with ingredients of only Belgian origin. Bitterness of 100 IBU, deep black color of 160 EBC. Named for Belgian King Albert II. Cuvée Delphine (13.0% ABV): a limited bottling of the Black Albert aged in Four Roses Bourbon barrels. Named after the eponymous king's alleged illegitimate daughter, Belgian artist Delphine Boël. Featuring a label by the artist reading "Truth Can Set You Free". Dirty Horse (7.0% ABV): A spontaneously-fermented sour ale aged in wood. Red-haired Jeanne (7.0% ABV): an amber ale, brewed for a festival in remembrance of "Red-haired Jeanne", a woman from the coastal town of Nieuwpoort, where the brewmaster from Struise was born, who was reportedly convicted of witchcraft and burned at the stake. Joint Ventures / Blended Products  Struise Mikeller (9.0% ABV): a very bitter and potent beer in the American Double IPA style. 130 IBU. Made in collaboration with Mikkeller. Xenophon’s Wine (11.0% ABV): a barrel-aged version of a Barleywine originally titled "Xeno's Ale" with hopping adjusted by representatives from Chicago's Pipeworks Brewing Company. Hopverdomme (7.5% ABV): a strong, bitter ale brewed in concert with Pipeworks Brewing Company. Fedeltá  (8.2% ABV): a strong blonde ale brewed in Maine in collaboration with Allagash Brewing Company. Made with 15% wheat malt, cane sugar and honey. Hopped with Cascade and Amarillo to 35 IBU. Twickenham Struise Porter (5.0% ABV): a Brown Porter brewed at Twickenham Fine Ales in London.  The "Black Damnation" project This project was conceived by the brewmaster at Struise. Their dark Russian imperial stout beer Black Albert serves as the base for a number of experimental brews that are to be released over a period of two years (2010-2012). As of June 2011, the following six brews have been released to the public:  Black Damnation (13.0% ABV): a bottled blend of the Black Albert with the Hel & Verdoemenis (Hell and Damnation) of Brouwerij De Molen. Black Damnation II: Mocha Bomb (12.0% ABV): a blend of 50% Black Albert matured on coffee beans, 25% of the Dutch-brewed Hel & Verdoemenis matured in JD barrels for 6 months, and 25% Cuvée Delphine. Black Damnation III: Black Mes (13.0% ABV): a version of Black Albert aged for 3 months in whisky barrels. Black Damnation IV: Coffee Club (13.0% ABV): Black Albert, matured for 6 months on very old rum barrels. Black Damnation V: Double Black (26.0% ABV): aged Black Albert (Cuvée Delphine) of which the contents have been concentrated through the Eisbock process. Black Damnation XI: Special Kay (22.0% ABV): a mix of Black Albert and Kate the Great (Russian imperial stouts) aged on Noval Port barrels for 10 months, then put through the Eisbock process. These brews have been completed, but are yet to be commercially released and have only been available for tasting at the brewery or at various beer festivals or other occasions:  Black Damnation VI: Messy (39.0% ABV): Black Mes put through the Eisbock process twice, ending up with 39% ABV. Brewed in honor of the wedding celebration of the man that inspired the original brew. Black Damnation VII: Single Black (2.0% ABV): with only 2% ABV, this very light stout beer is called a BOB stout by Struise, meaning it can also be enjoyed (in moderation) by designated drivers. Black Damnation VIII: S.H.I.T. (12.0% ABV): a blend of Black Albert and Shark Pants. S.H.I.T. stands for Super High Intensive Taste. This blend of a Russian imperial stout and an IPA results in a black IPA. Black Damnation IX. Beggars' Art (18.1% ABV): Black Damnation aged on Ardbeg cask. Black Damnation X: Double Wood (15.0% ABV): after adding fresh yeast during aging, it ages on Balvenie sherry casks. A number of other seasonal and limited-edition beers are also produced.  References External links Official website De Struise Brouwers, Brewing with Attitude - BeerTourism.com Struise listing on RateBeer DSB listing on BeerAdvocate Official Facebook Page

Mark Beard (born 8 October 1974) is an English football manager and former professional footballer who played as a midfielder. He was most recently manager of National League South club Eastbourne Borough. Beard began his career in the youth academy at Millwall in 1991. He signed his first professional contract in 1993, and made his first-team debut later that year. He spent two years at the club; scoring a goal against Arsenal in an FA Cup victory in January 1995. He was transferred to Sheffield United ahead of the 1995–96 season. In 1998, he joined Southend United, who he had also spent time on loan at in 1997. He played regularly for the Essex club over two spells, as well as spending time at Kingstonian.  He moved to Spain to set up a youth academy for Spanish team UD San Pedro in 2004, eventually ending up as part of the playing squad. After two years in Spain, he returned to England to sign for Stevenage Borough, spending one year with the club and winning the FA Trophy as part of the first team to win a competitive cup final at the new Wembley Stadium in May 2007. Beard went on to spend time at AFC Wimbledon during the 2007–08 season, and the club were promoted to the Conference South via the play-offs during his time there.  After retiring from playing, Beard made the transition into coaching and management; taking on the role of first-team manager at Haywards Heath Town, Tooting & Mitcham and Loxwood respectively. He combined his role at Loxwood alongside working in the academy at Brighton & Hove Albion, before he left the Surrey club in order to take up the under-18 academy coach role at Brighton on a full-time basis in May 2017. He remained in the academy role at Brighton for four years before being appointed assistant manager at Stockport County in July 2021. Beard was appointed head of coaching at Dorking Wanderers in November 2021, a position he held until his appointment as manager of Eastbourne Borough in June 2023. On the 1st January 2024 Eastbourne Borough Football Club announced they had parted company with Mark Beard.  Playing career Millwall Beard started his career with Millwall, joining the club's youth academy in 1991 "straight from school". He was captain of the youth team that won the FA Youth Cup, beating Sheffield Wednesday in the final. During his time at youth level, he also helped the team win the Southern Junior Cup, as well as finishing runners-up in the South East Counties league. After playing regularly in the youth team, Millwall manager Mick McCarthy offered Beard his first professional contract in 1993, which he signed. He made his debut as an 18-year-old, playing in Millwall's 4–1 victory against Watford. Beard went on to make 18 appearances that season, scoring one goal. During the 1994–95 season, he scored in Millwall's 2–0 victory against Arsenal in an FA Cup third round replay at Highbury in January 1995.  Sheffield United In the summer of 1995, Beard was transferred to Sheffield United for a fee of £117,500, with Dave Bassett signing him. He made his debut as a substitute in a 2–0 defeat to Tranmere Rovers in August 1995, and made 56 appearances during his time at the club. At the start of the 1997–98 season, Beard was loaned out to Southend United for two months, making his debut in a 1–1 draw against Oldham Athletic. He made ten appearances during the loan agreement. He returned to his parent club in January 1998, making four appearances during the second half of the season.  Southend United Ahead of the 1998–99 season, Beard signed for Southend on a permanent basis. He was a regular during the season, making 40 appearances in all competitions, and earned the Player of the Year award at the end of the season. He remained at Southend for the 1999–2000 season, starting in the club's first game of the season, a 2–1 home victory against Plymouth Argyle. He made 42 appearances during the season as Southend finished in 16th position in Division Three, scoring what turned out to be his only goal for the club in a 2–1 defeat to Hull City in November 1999. During his first spell at Southend, he made 82 appearances. Beard then signed for Football Conference club Kingstonian on a free transfer on 12 July 2000. He debuted for Kingtsonian in a 1–0 home victory over Northwich Victoria on 19 August 2000, and made 29 appearances for the club during a season in which Kingstonian were relegated. The club reached the fourth round of the FA Cup that season, losing to Bristol City in a replay after the two teams had drawn at Ashton Gate, with Beard playing in both matches. He left the club at the end of the season, and rejoined Southend United two months into the 2001–02 season, making 17 appearances that season. Another season at Southend followed, during which he made 42 appearances, before leaving the club at the end of the 2002–03 season. He returned to Kingstonian for the following season, with the club playing in the Isthmian League Premier Division, scoring six times in 40 league games. At the end of the season, he travelled to Spain to set up a youth academy at Marbella based club U.D San Pedro in the Spanish Third Division, and ended up as part of the playing squad during his time there.  Stevenage Borough After spending two years playing and coaching in Spain, Beard signed for Stevenage Borough of the Conference National on 11 September 2006. The move came to fruition after Beard asked his brother, Matt Beard, to call a number of a managers in England. Stevenage manager Mark Stimson stated he was in need of "adding some grit into midfield", and subsequently offered Beard a one-week trial period to prove his fitness. Beard had previously played alongside Stimson at Southend. Beard agreed to play for nothing at the beginning of his time at Stevenage, making his debut in a 6–0 home victory over Stafford Rangers on 9 September 2006, coming on as a 73rd-minute substitute in the club's first win of the season. He scored his first goal in a 1–0 victory against Weymouth at Broadhall Way on 19 September 2006. Beard played regularly during the season, making 49 appearances in all competitions, scoring three goals. This appearance tally included eight appearances in the FA Trophy, with Beard playing every minute as Stevenage became the first team to win a competitive cup final at the new Wembley Stadium, beating Kidderminster Harriers 3–2 in front of a competition record crowd of 53,262. He was released at the end of the season; Beard stated he was "gutted to leave", with Stimson wanting to bring in John Martin as his replacement.  Later career Following his release from Stevenage, Beard joined Conference South club St Albans City in a player-assistant manager role on 20 June 2007. He was assistant to Ritchie Hanlon, who stated – "Mark has all the relevant coaching badges and I'm looking forward to working with him as he is someone I trust. He will bring experience to the team and is someone the other players can look up to". Hanlon was sacked just ten games into the 2007–08 season, and Beard subsequently departed too. He then signed for AFC Wimbledon of the Isthmian League Premier Division towards the latter stages of 2007, and he helped the team gain promotion to the Conference South, scoring once in 17 league appearances. He left Wimbledon at the end of the season, and then spent two years at Haywards Heath Town in the Sussex County League, making 56 appearances and scoring six times, as well as managing the club during the 2009–10 season. Beard briefly returned to playing during the 2010–11 season after a number of injuries to first team players whilst manager of Tooting and Mitcham United, scoring one goal in three games.  Coaching career Early coaching career Beard gained his UEFA coaching badges in 2007, and already had previous experience of coaching in both Spain and Cyprus. He was appointed Director of Youth at Spanish Third Division club UD San Pedro, combining the position alongside his playing duties. With the aid of Vinny Samways, Beard watched over seven academy teams before returning to the England when he signed for Stevenage Borough. He was brought in to set up a youth academy at Sussex County League club Haywards Heath Town in 2008, and ultimately ended up managing the side during the 2009–10 season. He was appointed manager of Isthmian Premier Division team Tooting and Mitcham United in July 2010, spending 18-months in-charge, describing his tenure as "a great experience which will stand me in good stead for my future as a coach/manager". He left the club in December 2011, stating – "It was on the cards for the last couple of months. It is down to the results, they haven't been good enough and for one reason or another we have not been winning games. It has been a struggle. Last season, we didn't have a lot of money and we worked hard with a whole lot of youngsters and, this year, too many things have been going on behind the scenes and affecting things on the pitch".  Management Beard was appointed as youth team coach at League One club Crawley Town in February 2012. He spent two years coaching in the youth set-up at Crawley, before starting up his own academy in 2014, creating the Love The Ball (LTB) Sussex Academy. The LTB Sussex Academy joined with Southern Combination Premier Division club Loxwood ahead of the 2014–15 season, providing a direct route for academy players to play first-team semi-professional football. After a year serving as head coach at the LTB Sussex Academy, Beard took over as manager of the Loxwood first-team in 2015. Half of his academy players were subsequently promoted to the Loxwood first-team.  Brighton & Hove Albion He combined the role of first-team manager at Loxwood alongside coaching the under-15 and under-16 teams at Brighton & Hove Albion. In March 2017, Beard left his role at Loxwood with immediate effect, due to a change in coaching responsibilities at Brighton. Two months later, in May 2017, he was promoted to under-18 academy coach at Brighton. Brighton's under-17 team won the under-17 Premier League Cup under Beard's management, winning the final 2–0 against the under-17 team of Middlesbrough on 5 May 2021.  Stockport County After four years in his under-18 academy coach role at Brighton, Beard was appointed assistant manager at National League club Stockport County on 6 July 2021. He left his role at Stockport in October 2021, having struggled to relocate away from his family.  Dorking Wanderers Beard was appointed as head of coaching at National League South club Dorking Wanderers on 12 November 2021. He combined the role alongside returning to Brighton as a youth coach.  Eastbourne Bororugh Beard was appointed as manager of National League South club Eastbourne Borough on 8 June 2023.  Personal life Beard was born in Roehampton. He is a Millwall supporter. His son Sam Beard is currently playing for his father at Eastbourne.  Honours Millwall  FA Youth Cup: 1990–91 Stevenage Borough  FA Trophy: 2006–07 AFC Wimbledon  Isthmian League Premier Division play-offs: 2007–08 Individual  Southend United Player of the Year: 1998–99  References External links Mark Beard at Soccerbase

Évaux-les-Bains (French pronunciation: [evo le bɛ̃]; Occitan: Evahon) is a commune in the Creuse department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in central France.  History A spa town founded by the Romans in the first century, who developed thermal baths and called the place “Ivaonum,” possibly after a deity, Ivaos. It became a place of pilgrimage after the sixth century, because of the tomb of the Christian hermit Marien. A monastery was built here in the tenth century, but this was destroyed in the seventeenth century. It was the regional capital of the Combraille in the thirteenth century and was besieged during the Hundred Years War by the Routiers. The Roman baths, abandoned since the fifth century, became popular again at the beginning of the 17th century and again in the nineteenth century.  Geography An area of lakes and streams, forestry, farming and associated light industry, consisting of a small town and several hamlets situated between the valleys of the rivers Cher and Tardes, some 14 miles (23 km) southwest of Montluçon, at the junction of the D19, D20, D996 and the D915 roads. The commune is on the border with the department of Allier and is served by a TER railway link to Montluçon. The river Tardes flows into the Cher in the commune, 7.5 km (4.7 mi) north of the town.  Population Sights The church of St. Peter & Paul, dating from the eleventh century. The seventeenth century châteaux of Relibert and Monterolle. The church of Notre-Dame. Remains of an old convent. The chapel of Saint Marien. Vestiges of the town gates and walls. Châteaux de Relibert, Monterolle. Vestiges of the Roman baths. The Tardes viaduct, by  Gustave Eiffel. The war memorial. The eleventh-century chapel of Saint Radegonde.  See also Communes of the Creuse department  References External links  Official commune website (in French) Tourist Office website (in French)

Berryville ( BURR-ə-vul) is a city in Carroll County, Arkansas, United States. The population was 5,682 at the 2020 census. making it the largest city in Carroll County. Along with Eureka Springs, it is one of the two county seats of Carroll County.  History Berryville was founded by local settler Blackburn Henderson Berry in 1850; his nephew James Henderson Berry would become the fourteenth governor of Arkansas in 1883. The city was incorporated in 1876.  Geography U.S. Route 62 passes through the center of the city, leading east 30 miles (48 km) to Harrison and west 46 miles (74 km) to Rogers. Eureka Springs is 12 miles (19 km) to the west on US 62. Arkansas Highway 21 leads north from Berryville 16 miles (26 km) to the Missouri line. According to the United States Census Bureau, Berryville has a total area of 6.1 square miles (15.8 km2), all land.  Demographics 2020 census As of the 2020 United States census, there were 5,682 people, 2,009 households, and 1,269 families residing in the city.  2010 census As of the census of 2010, there were 5,356 people, 1,963 households, and 1,309 families residing in the city. The population density was 879.0 inhabitants per square mile (339.4/km2). There were 2,155 housing units at an average density of 353.3 per square mile (136.4/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 81.7% White, 0.5% Black or African American, 0.8% Native American, 0.9% Asian, 0.4% Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, 13.2% some other race, and 2.6% two or more races. 24.7% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race. There were 1,963 households, out of which 38.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 45.3% were headed by married couples living together, 14.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 33.3% were non-families. 28.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 13.3% were someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.65, and the average family size was 3.26. In the city, the population was spread out, with 29.0% under the age of 18, 9.8% from 18 to 24, 25.5% from 25 to 44, 21.1% from 45 to 64, and 14.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 33.5 years. For every 100 females, there were 90.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 86.0 males. For the period 2008–2012, the estimated median annual income for a household in the city was $30,046, and the median income for a family was $37,717. Male full-time workers had a median income of $28,244 versus $24,074 for females. The per capita income for the city was $16,924. About 14.2% of families and 17.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 17.5% of those under age 18 and 14.8% of those age 65 or over.  Education Public education for elementary and secondary school students is provided by the Berryville School District, which leads to graduation at Berryville High School.  Places of interest Saunders' Museum, which has guns used by outlaws such as Pancho Villa, Billy the Kid, and many others, as well as other items of interest, is located in the center of town. Cosmic Cavern is 7 miles (11 km) north of town on Arkansas Highway 21. Berryville is the home of handgun manufacturing companies of Nighthawk Custom and Wilson Combat, as well as the International Defensive Pistol Association, a body that sanctions practical shooting competitions that emphasize real-world self-defense scenarios. Little Portion Hermitage, a community founded by Christian musician John Michael Talbot, is located outside of Berryville.  Transportation Roadways US Highway 62  US Highway 62 Spur  Arkansas Highway 21  Arkansas Highway 143  Arkansas Highway 221  Arkansas Highway 980  Transit Jefferson Lines  Notable people Bob Ballinger, Republican member of the Arkansas House of Representatives from District 97 (Carroll, Madison, and Washington counties); resides and maintains law office in Berryville James Henderson Berry, U.S. senator, 14th governor of Arkansas Bradely Bunch, state senator in 1885 James William Trimble, former congressman, unseated in 1966 by Republican John Paul Hammerschmidt, a former Berryville lawyer Bill Wilson, founder of US firearms manufacturer Wilson Combat  References External links City of Berryville official website Archived October 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine

Sir Cecil Fabian Brackenbury KCIE CSI (13 March 1881 – 29 September 1958) was a civil servant and bureaucrat who served as Chief Secretary of the Madras Presidency from 1935 to 1939. Brackenbury was Chief Secretary when the first elections were held in the Madras Presidency as per the Government of India Act, 1935 and had a warm and friendly relationship with C. Rajagopalachari, the Premier of Madras Presidency from 1937 to 1939.  Career Brackenbury joined the Indian Civil Service on 1 November 1905 and served as Assistant Collector and Magistrate in Chittoor, Ootacamund and Chingleput. From 1920 to 1924, Brackenbury served as Political Agent in Sandur State. As Settlement Officer in Cuddapah, Brackenbury was instrumental in preparing the Cuddapah District Gazetteer.  Later, he was promoted Deputy Collector and then, Collector and he served as District Collector of Nilgiris District from 17 April 1926 to 20 March 1928. and Chittoor. In the 1930s, Brackenbury was appointed Commissioner of Labour in the Madras Presidency and in 1935, he succeeded G. T. H. Bracken as Chief Secretary to the Madras government.  Chief Secretary Brackenbury's term as Chief Secretary of Madras was a momentous period in Indian history. The Government of India Act was passed in 1935 and as per the provisions of the act the franchise which had hitherto been restricted only to landlords and notables was enlarged to include much of India's population making the 1937 elections, the first democratically held elections in India's history. In the Madras Presidency, the Indian National Congress was elected to power and Indian independence activist C. Rajagopalachari became the Premier.  Brackenbury soon became a favourite of Rajagopalachari and the working of the government was smooth and unhindered. Upon Rajagopalachari taking charge as Premier, he gifted khadi cloth to Brackenbury. Brackenbury warmly accepted the gift and made a suit out of it.  The Governor, Lord Erskine reported to the Viceroy, Lord Linlithgow that Rajagopalachari had 'struck up a great friendship with the Chief Secretary, which is certainly reciprocated.' When Brackenbury retired as Chief Secretary in 1938, Rajagopalachari tried to recommend Brackenbury's name for the post of Governor of Orissa, but the Viceroy discouraged him.  Death Brackenbury's ashes are buried in Cambridge city Crematorium along with his wife, Ethel.   == References ==

All of director Stanley Kubrick's films from Paths of Glory until the end of his career, except for The Shining, were nominated for Academy Awards or Golden Globe Awards, in various categories. 2001: A Space Odyssey received numerous technical awards, including a BAFTA Award for cinematographer Geoffrey Unsworth and an Academy Award for Best Visual Effects, which Kubrick (as director of special effects on the film) received. This was Kubrick's only personal Academy Award win among 13 nominations. Nominations for his films were mostly in the areas of cinematography, art design, screenwriting, and music. Only four of his films were nominated for either an Academy Award or Golden Globe Award for their acting performances: Spartacus, Lolita, Dr. Strangelove, and A Clockwork Orange. Personal awards for Kubrick, limited to Academy Awards, British Academy Film Awards (BAFTA), Golden Globe Awards and Saturns, are as follows:  Academy Awards The Academy Awards, or "Oscars" are a set of awards given annually for excellence of cinematic achievements. The awards, organized by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), were first held in 1929 at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel. Kubrick received one award from thirteen nominations.  British Academy Film Awards The British Academy Film Award is an annual award show presented by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts. The awards were founded in 1947 as The British Film Academy, by David Lean, Alexander Korda, Carol Reed, Charles Laughton, Roger Manvell and others. Kubrick received three awards from eleven nominations.  Golden Globe Awards The Golden Globe Award is an accolade bestowed by the 93 members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) recognizing excellence in film and television, both domestic and foreign. Kubrick received no awards from six nominations.  Hugo Awards The Hugo Awards are a set of awards given annually for the best science fiction or fantasy works and achievements. Organized and overseen by the World Science Fiction Society, the awards are given each year at the annual World Science Fiction Convention as the central focus of the event. They were first given in 1953, at the 11th World Science Fiction Convention. Kubrick was awarded three times.  Others Kubrick received two awards from major film festivals: Best Director from the Locarno International Film Festival in 1959 for Killer's Kiss, and Filmcritica Bastone Bianco Award at the Venice Film Festival in 1999 for Eyes Wide Shut. He also was nominated for the Golden Lion of the Venice Film Festival in 1962 for Lolita. The Venice Film Festival awarded him the Career Golden Lion in 1997. He received the D.W. Griffith Lifetime Achievement Award from the Directors Guild of America, and another life-achievement award from the Director's Guild of Great Britain. Posthumously, the Sitges - Catalan International Film Festival awarded him the Honorary Grand Prize for life achievement in 2008.  References   == External links ==

Turner Creek Park is a municipal park in Hillsboro in the U.S. state of Oregon. Opened about 1990, the 12.5-acre (51,000 m2) park is located in the middle of the city along Turner Creek near southwest 32nd Avenue between Tualatin Valley Highway and Main Street. The park includes a playground, restrooms, several sports facilities, and natural areas with trails.  History Turner Creek Park opened about 1990 near W. L. Henry Elementary School and southwest 32nd Avenue in the center of Hillsboro. Construction included building dams and trails along the creek, with some labor provided by an alternative school program paid for by the federal government. During construction the city received donation of nearly 100 trees from a local nursery and Portland General Electric, with volunteers providing the labor to plant the trees. During the summer of 1992 some trees at the park died due to a drought. The city sought to receive 75 live former Christmas trees in donations from local residents after Christmas in 1992 to plant at the park to replace those that died. From 1993 to 1994, the city’s parks and recreation department worked with civic groups and used a grant to improve the natural areas of the park, which included consolidation of a variety of trails, plantings, and adding bird houses. A wildflower garden was added in 1997. Bisected by Turner Creek, the wetlands area of the park and the creek have experienced numerous sewer overflows beginning around 1995. An older sewer line runs along the creek and passes through the park on its way south to the wastewater treatment plant operated by Clean Water Services at Rock Creek.  The city was fined $32,000 by the state over its clean up of spills in 2006. The park played host to Heritage Christian School’s Latin Olympika games in 2003. City residents rejected a bond measure in November 2008 that would have paid for improvements at Turner Creek Park among six other parks as well as a recreation center at 53rd Avenue Park. As of August 2009, Turner Creek was one of only three parks in the city that had not been adopted under the parks departments adopt a park program. A new playground was installed in a single day by volunteers in August 2018.  Amenities The 12.5-acre (5.1 ha) park includes athletic facilities, wetlands, and wooded sections. Features include play equipment for children, picnic areas, restrooms, and parking. Sports features are two tennis courts, one soccer field, and two softball fields. The natural area on the west side of the park has paved and wood chip trails leading to a boardwalk and bridge across Turner Creek. These trails run down a small canyon that separates the improved portions of the park from the creek and connect to the elementary school. About four acres are along the creek, which was changed to meander through the area which includes ponds and islands. The city changed the stream by building small dikes that are closed in the summertime to collect water and create pools for use by wildlife, including great blue herons. Other animals at the park include garter snakes, gulls, frogs, fish, and blackbirds among others. Flora include purple iris, sedges, nodding beggar-tick, knotweed, jewelweed, and Veronica.  References External links  Media related to Turner Creek Park at Wikimedia Commons

Michael David Pook (born 22 October 1985) is an English semi-professional footballer who plays for Cirencester Town. A product of the Swindon Town youth system, he has previously spent time with Maidenhead United, Forest Green Rovers, Brackley Town, Oxford City, Hungerford Town, Chippenham Town and North Leigh in non-League football, and represented Swindon and Cheltenham Town in the Football League between 2003 and 2011.  Playing career Swindon Town Born in Swindon, Pook was originally a Swindon Town youth team player. He made his debut for the first team in October 2003, playing seventy minutes of a Football League Trophy match at Boston in October 2003 that the Town lost 2–1. Though he regularly appeared on the bench later in the season, he didn't make it onto the pitch until the following September, in somewhat different surroundings – coming on as an injury-time substitute in a League Cup match at Elland Road, Leeds. He made his league debut in December 2004, again as a substitute, this time at Bournemouth – but was not used again until April – in the meantime, he was an integral part of the youth team that won the Youth Alliance South West Conference title. Without having started a match in the first team, manager Andy King offered him a professional contract, and he finally made his first start on 23 April – with the Town out of the promotion race, King began to experiment with youth players, and Pook was the first to benefit when he started the match against Tranmere, and went on to appear in the next two . During this period, he also helped the youths to an Alliance Cup victory – and though first team duties meant that he was only a substitute in the final at Burnley, he came on to play the majority of the second half plus extra time. By the time the squad reported for pre-season training, Pook had signed his one-year deal, and with a small squad, manager Andy King declared that he wouldn't be scared to utilise any of the youngsters that were making up the first team squad. Pook started the season in an unusual role on the left side of midfield at Barnsley, but slotted back into the centre for the next match, where he remained until mid-November – the only player ever-present to this point of the season. During this period, King regularly praised Pook on his progress, and he bagged his first senior goal for the club, scoring with a shot from the edge of the area in a League Cup defeat against Wycombe at the County Ground. Unfortunately, Pook soon made headlines for the wrong reasons – after missing his first game, sitting out the 1–1 draw at Port Vale on the bench, early the next morning he was arrested for drink driving after being stopped by a police patrol. Eventually banned from driving for nineteen months and fined £300, Pook was also dropped from the first team the following week, with new manager Iffy Onuora stating that he didn't feel it was right to play him, with everything going on behind the scenes. Pook returned to action in December, helping the Town to a 1–0 victory over Rotherham in a vital bottom-of-the-table clash. After signings of Paul Smith and Andy Gurney, Pook's appearances became more limited in the second half of the season – Onuora stating that with the experienced players coming in, Pook should try to learn from them. He made just two appearances in January and February, before being put straight back into the starting line-up after the Town were defeated 7–1 at Nottingham Forest – and after making four starts in March, he signed another year's contract at the end of the month. Perhaps surprisingly, he made just one more start, in the last match of the season, by which time the Town's relegation to League Two had been confirmed. Pook marked his 50th senior appearance for the club with a goal in Swindon's 3–0 home victory against Grimsby Town. Pook continued to play his role in Swindon's promotion season of 2006/2007, scoring an impressive strike away at Boston. Pooks slow and steady progression earned him a contract extension for the 2007/2008 season, although he has fierce competition for a place in the centre of midfield.  Cheltenham Town In the summer of 2009, Pook signed for League Two club Cheltenham Town and was given the no. 7 shirt. Though not known for his goalscoring and with only five league goals in his career up to that point, Pook scored his first hat-trick in a remarkable 6–5 win over Burton Albion on 13 March 2010. All his goals were scored from outside the penalty area with his right foot (one free-kick, one deflected shot and one volleyed winner), and all three goals were, remarkably, in the last ten minutes of the match. Cheltenham had found themselves 5–3 down with only three minutes of normal time remaining, but Pook's second and third – either side of an effort from Justin Richards – clinched an amazing victory. On 9 May 2011 Pook was made available for a free transfer by manager Mark Yates and on 24 August 2011 he was released by the club. Pook then joined Conference National side Forest Green Rovers on trial in September 2011. He trained with Forest Green to keep fit until the start of November when he left the club to link up with Brackley Town.  Brackley Town In November 2011, Pook signed for Southern Premier Division side Brackley Town.  Maidenhead United In December 2011, Pook signed for Conference South side Maidenhead United. In January 2012 Pook trialled at an unnamed League One club in an attempt to win a contract.  Forest Green Rovers Just a few months after Pook finished training for fitness with Forest Green he signed for the Conference National club on 27 January 2012 as cover for the injured Al Bangura. Pook made his Forest Green debut the next day in a 1–2 home loss against Fleetwood Town. At the end of the season, having made 8 appearances, Pook was released by Forest Green.  Maidenhead United second spell In July 2012, it was announced that after leaving Forest Green that Pook had signed on for a second spell with Maidenhead United. He left the club in October 2013.  Oxford City Just a few days after leaving Maidenhead, he signed for Oxford City in October 2013.  Hungerford Town It was announced on 31 May 2014 that Pook had joined Hungerford Town. He departed after making only one start for the club.  Chippenham Town Michael Pook signed for Chippenham Town on 12 September 2014. He made his first appearance for the club during the 0-1 FA Cup first round qualifying victory at Sholing.  References External links Michael Pook at Soccerbase

Malhavoc is a Canadian heavy metal band, formed in 1983 in Toronto, Ontario. The band's only constant member is singer and multi-instrumentalist James Cavalluzzo. Starting out as an extreme metal act, the band soon employed elements from industrial music, becoming one of the earlier acts of industrial metal genre. The band is also known for its stage antics, which incorporated sadomasochism, nudity, role-playing violence and self-harm.  History Malhavoc was formed in 1983 by James Cavalluzzo. The band has recorded multiple demos during the '80s, The Destruction Starts (1983), The Destruction Continues (1984), Age of the Dark Renaissance (1986) and Shrine (1988), last of which introduced industrial, death metal and ambient elements to the band's sound. The band's debut album, The Release, was issued in 1990; its line-up included guitarists Dave Kiner and Rob Wright, and bassist Steve Jelliman alongside Cavalluzzo. 1991's Punishments EP saw the inclusion of programmer Steve Crowhurst, as well as contributions from Dave Ogilvie of Skinny Puppy. The band's second album, Premeditated Murder, was released in the following year; featuring elements from electronic music and thrash metal, the record met with a sampling controversy after the band sampled "Sympathy for the Devil" by The Rolling Stone without clearance. Its follow-up, Get Down (1994), saw the introduction of live drummer John Carss; the record strayed away from the band's heavy metal roots while featuring heavier elements from techno, ambient and industrial. The record was nominated for a Juno Award for Best Hard Rock Album in 1995. Increasing disagreements during the release of Get Down led to line-up changes within the band. The band's forthcoming release, Lazarus Complex: A Tale of Two Zombies, was subsequently delayed as a result of the complications between the band and the record label; it was eventually issued in 2000. It was produced by Dave Ogilvie. Following its release, Cavalluzzo sporadically resurrected Malhavoc as a personal project. In 2004, Malhavoc released a cover EP, Human Fly. In 2007, Cavalluzzo assembled a live band for touring.  Band members Current members James Cavalluzzo (Jimi LaMort) — vocals, guitar, bass, programming Bryan Somerville — guitar Tim Hagberg — drums Past members Justin Pearen — bass Dave C. Bass — bass Justin Small — bass Steve Jelliman — bass, guitar, programming John Carss — drums Steve Crowhurst — drums, keyboards, programming Chris Scahill — guitar Dave Kiner — guitar Lee McCormack — guitar Rob Wright — guitar Nigel Williams— guitar Jeremy Inkel — keyboards Ric H. — vocals  Discography Studio albums The Release (1990) Premeditated Murder (1992) Get Down (1994) The Lazarus Complex: A Tale of Two Zombies (2000) Demo albums Destruction Starts (1983) The Destruction Continues (1984) Age of the Dark Renaissance (1986) Shrine (1988) EPs Punishments (1991) Human Fly (2004)  References External links Official website

The Bluegrass Balloon Festival, formerly called the Adam Matthews Balloon Festival, was the fifth largest hot air balloon festival in the United States, and the largest in the state of Kentucky. From 1999 to 2009, it was held annually in late September at Bowman Field in Louisville, Kentucky. The festival featured up to 100 hot air balloons participating in three early morning balloon races and two evening balloon glows. Other events included four live concerts, 11 free children's activities, and a car show featuring more than 150 classic, exotic, and modified cars. There was also a balloon education center teaching the fundamentals of ballooning, as well as food, a beer garden, and other activities. It was common to have crowds of more than 100,000 on the busiest day of the festival. Many events were held during the three days. One of the more popular attractions was the evening balloon glow, when balloons were inflated and glow to music after dark. Another was the early morning balloon race with a cash prize for the winner. The Adam Matthews Balloon Festival celebrated its last festival in September 2006. The festival was purchased by The Spirit of Kentucky Foundation and was renamed the Bluegrass Balloon Festival.  History For many years, local pilots gathered to give back to the community by holding a year-end balloon glow at Bowman Field. When the local event was canceled due to the lack of funds, Adam Burckle, the founder of the Adam Matthews Cheesecake Company, came up with an idea that led to the festival. The first year event was held with 52 balloons in attendance. Many balloons were local, although some pilots traveled from far across the United States. The initial event raised $20,000 for the Dream Factory, an organization that helps grant wishes to children with life-threatening diseases. The second annual event was held in 2000 with 70 balloons from across the country. The event became so popular that the entry was limited to 70 balloons and there was a waiting list. The events of the September 11, 2001 attacks on New York City and Washington, D.C. put some doubt into the flights of the festival, as civil aviation flights (including ballooning) were restricted for a period of time after the attacks. The festival petitioned the National Safety Council and the FAA to allow the flight of hot air balloons, which was approved only two days before the festival. Approximately 75 balloons attended the event that year, making it the largest balloon festival held in Kentucky's history. By 2002, the event had grown to 85 registered balloons, and WHAS-TV 11, a local television station in Louisville, featured the evening Balloon Glow during its prime time broadcast. Meijers sponsored the Starship Concert, and Dean's Milk sponsored the balloon races with more than $27,500 in prize money. Pilots travelled from as far as away as New Zealand, Canada and the Western U.S.; they raised more than $35,000 for the Make-A-Wish Foundation, the Louisville Zoo, and the Crusade for Children. By 2003, the festival had grown to 100 registered balloons, with more than $40,000 in prizes awarded. There was also six hours of live TV coverage, and more than 120,000 people attended the event over three days. Portions of the parking fees benefited the Crusade for Children, and additional funds were raised for the Louisville Zoo and several other local non-profit groups. In 2007 the Adam Matthews Balloon Festival was purchased by the Spirit of Kentucky Foundation for $1, and the event was renamed the Bluegrass Balloon Festival. It continued to be the largest ballooning event in Kentucky and the fifth largest in the United States. The festival was cancelled in 2010 for various reasons. It was to return in 2011 with a new name, "Spirit of Kentucky Balloon Festival", but that was cancelled as well. There has been no sign of the existence of the festival since that time.  See also List of attractions and events in the Louisville metropolitan area   == References ==

Maayane Tamar Soumagnac (born 13 March 1987) is a French-Israeli Astrophysicist and social activist, senior lecturer (the Israeli equivalent of "Assistant Professor") in the Physics department at the Bar-Ilan University.  Early life and education After obtaining her Bacclaureat in the Lycée Henri IV, Soumagnac studied Physics at the Ecole Normale Superieure Cachan and the Ecole Normale Superieure Lyon, graduating in 2009. She completed her PhD at the University College London in 2015. Her thesis, "Tipping scales in galaxy surveys: Star/Galaxy separation and scale-depende bias", used machine learning and data mining techniques applied to the Dark Energy Survey data and the BOSS survey data. Her doctoral advisor was Ofer Lahav.  Research and career Soumagnac’s research explores the interface between big data and Astrophysics. After completing her PhD, Soumagnac joined the Weizmann Institute of Science, where she was a postdoctoral fellow of the Ilan Ramon foundation, worked on time-domain astronomy  using the Zwicky Transient Facility and served as the assistant project scientist of the ULTRASAT UV satellite. In 2019, she joined the Computational research division at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, focusing on X-ray Astronomy and the synergy between transient surveys and the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Instrument collaboration, where she served as the chair of the transients working group. In 2021, while remaining an Affiliate at the Berkeley National Lab, Soumagnac joined the physics department at Bar-Ilan University, becoming the third woman to hold a faculty position in Astrophysics in Israel. Soumagnac is involved in projects aimed at bringing astronomy to the public, and has given outreach talks at various venues, including the Neve Tirtza Women’s prison. She has been involved in several initiatives to inspire children and encourage women to pursue space-related careers. Soumagnac is an alumna of the International Space University and has served as a lecturer for the ISU Executive Space Program.  Social and political Activism Soumagnac became active in the "Hitorerut in Jerusalem" political movement in 2015. She led several projects to foster dialogue between communities in Jerusalem and promote pluralism in the public sphere, gaining local media coverage. She ran for the Jerusalem city council in the 2024 elections, securing the tenth position on the list. Soumagnac is among the founders of the Independent minyan "Shabbat Baboker", located in the Rehavia neighbourhood of Jerusalem.  Personal life Soumagnac's maternal grandmother is the actress Henia Suchar. Her Paternal grand aunt is the musicologist and the chevalier de l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres Myriam Soumagnac. She is mentionned in the 2018 book “Israel, Island of success” by Noga Kainan and Adam Reuters.   == References ==

Sprengelia sprengelioides is a species of flowering plant of the family Ericaceae, and is endemic to near-coastal areas of eastern Australia. It is an erect shrub with egg-shaped leaves, and white flowers arranged singly in leaf axils.  Description Sprengelia sprengelioides is an erect, glabrous shrub that typically grows to a height of 0.3–1 m (1 ft 0 in – 3 ft 3 in) and has wiry stems. The leaves are egg-shaped, 4–12 mm (0.16–0.47 in) long and 1.5–3.2 mm (0.059–0.126 in) wide with a small point on the end and minute teeth on the edges. The flowers are arranged singly in leaf axils, with egg-shaped bracts 7–8 mm (0.28–0.31 in) long at the base. The sepals are broad, green, egg-shaped, and 6–10 mm (0.24–0.39 in) long. The petals white, joined at the base to form a tube 2–3 mm (0.079–0.118 in) long with lobes 6 mm (0.24 in) long. Flowering occurs from June to September and the fruit is a capsule about 2.5 mm (0.098 in) in diameter.  Taxonomy This species was first formally described in 1810 by Robert Brown who gave it the name Ponceletia sprengelioides in his Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen. In 1917, George Claridge Druce changed the name to Sprengelia sprengelioides in the supplement to The Botanical Exchange Club and Society of the British Isles Report for 1916. The specific epithet (sprengelioides) means "Sprengelia-like". (This species was originally in the genus Ponceletia.)  Habitat and distribution Sprengelia sprengelioides grows swampy heath, sometimes with Banksia robur or species of Xyris. It occurs in near-coastal areas of south-eastern Queensland, and south to the Sydney region of New South Wales.   == References ==

Black Dyke Band, formerly John Foster & Son Black Dyke Mills Band, is one of the oldest and most well-known brass bands in the world. It originated as multiple community bands founded by John Foster at his family's textile mill in Queensbury, Bradford, West Yorkshire, England, in the mid-19th century. The ensemble has become prominent in competitive band championships and through recordings for film and television. The band is well-known for recording the soundtrack to the BBC gardening makeover series Ground Force in 1997, and appeared in the Christmas edition of Victoria Wood's sitcom Dinnerladies in 1999. In 1998, they played on the Academy Award-nominated song "That'll Do" from Babe: Pig in the City.  They have featured on recordings and live appearances by acts including the Beatles, Paul McCartney and Tori Amos. In 2014, the band won the National Brass Band Championships of Great Britain for a record 23rd time, and the British Open Championship for another record 30th time. They have also won the European Championships a record thirteen times, most recently in 2015.  History The band was formerly the band of the Black Dyke Mills in  Queensbury, Bradford, West Yorkshire, England, a company owned by John Foster. Foster, a French horn player, joined with others in a small brass and reed band in Queensbury in 1816. This band faltered, and another band formed – called the Queenshead Band – which consisted of 18 musicians around 1843. This second band also faltered, but in 1855, Foster and other musicians established the new mill band, and outfitted it with uniforms made from the mill's own cloth. Most of the musicians in the band also worked at the mill, and a close bond was fostered with the local community. The band has remained active since that time, and still rehearses in its original rooms. Black Dyke was the first band to achieve the "Grand Slam" in 1985 by winning the Yorkshire regional, European, British Open and National Championship contests. They were also voted BBC Band of the Year. They appeared in an episode of Victoria Wood's dinnerladies sitcom in 1999.  European Championships Recordings Black Dyke Band has made over 350 recordings, including one of the first brass band recordings in 1904 and classical music. It has recorded with classical bass trombonist Douglas Yeo, and pop acts Tori Amos, Peter Gabriel and The Beautiful South. The band also worked with Gabriel on the highly acclaimed Millennium Show, featured in the Millennium Dome, as well as recording the music for the BBC programme Ground Force. In September 1968, the band released a single on The Beatles’ Apple Records label. The A-side was an instrumental composed by Lennon–McCartney called "Thingumybob" (the theme to a London Weekend Television sitcom of the same name starring Stanley Holloway). The flipside was a brass band instrumental version of another Lennon–McCartney song, "Yellow Submarine". The single was released under the name John Foster & Son Ltd Black Dyke Mills Band, produced by McCartney, and was one of the first four singles issued on the Apple label. In 1979, the Black Dyke Mills Band worked again with McCartney on a track for the Wings album Back to the Egg.  In August 2009, the band undertook a tour of Australia with multi-instrumentalist James Morrison which culminated in a concert at the Sydney Opera House.  Members As of 2020, the principals of the band's line up included:  Soprano cornet: Connor Lennon Principal cornet: Richard Marshall Flugelhorn: Zoe Hancock Solo horn: Siobhan Bates Solo baritone: Katrina Marzella Solo trombone: Brett Baker Bass trombone: Adam Reed Solo euphonium: Daniel Thomas Solo E♭ bass: Gavin Saynor Solo B♭ bass: Matthew Routley Drums and Percussion: Logan Thompson The band's current principal conductor and director of music is the Welsh euphonium virtuoso Prof. Nicholas Childs. His predecessor was trumpet player James Watson. Paul Lovatt-Cooper was the band's 'composer in association' and former principal percussionist. He retired from playing in early 2011 in order to concentrate on his teaching, conducting and composition. Black Dyke Band is the brass band in residence at the Royal Northern College of Music in Manchester, and Childs also conducts the RNCM Brass Band.  Former members John Maines, principal trombone Maurice Murphy, principal cornet James Shepherd, principal cornet  References External links Black Dyke Band BBC News - Bradford - Train name is high note for band

Wiser for the Time is the fifth live album by American southern rock band the Black Crowes, released on March 18, 2013. This marks their return from hiatus and is the first Black Crowes live album since Warpaint Live in 2009. Recorded during a five-night run in New York City (NYC) in their supporting tour for the 2010 album Croweology and released as vinyl or download. It includes live recordings (15 acoustic & 11 electric) from the band's 2010 NYC performances and four covers: "Hot Burrito #1" and "Hot Burrito #2" from The Flying Burrito Brothers,  Little Feat's "Willin'" and Bob Dylan's "Tonight I'll Be Staying Here with You".  Track listing Disc one "Cursed Diamond" – 7:21 "Sister Luck" – 6:21 "Smile" – 4:40 "Downtown Money Waster" – 4:47 "Hot Burrito #1" (The Flying Burrito Brothers cover) – 4:06 "Hot Burrito #2" (The Flying Burrito Brothers cover) – 4:36 "Garden Gate" – 4:35 "Better When You're Not Alone" – 6:46 "Darling of the Underground Press" – 4:27 "Jealous Again" – 5:44 "Hotel Illness" – 4:22 "Thunderstorm" – 4:37 "Oh the Rain" – 6:21  Disc two "Soul Singing" – 4:53 "Tonight I'll Be Staying Here with You" (Bob Dylan cover) – 3:34 "Exit" – 6:17 "No Speak No Slave" – 5:02 "(Only) Halfway to Everywhere" – 10:44 "A Conspiracy" – 5:08 "Title Song" – 8:35 "My Morning Song/Stare It Cold" – 11:19 "Tied Up & Swallowed" – 5:58 "Make Glad" – 5:08 "Waiting Guilty" – 8:52 "She Talks to Angels" – 6:15 "Willin'" (Little Feat cover) – 5:31  Personnel Lead vocals, guitar: Chris Robinson Guitar, vocals: Rich Robinson Guitar: Luther Dickinson Bass: Sven Pipien Drums: Steve Gorman Keyboards: Adam MacDougall Percussion: Joe Magistro Backing vocals: Charity White & Laura Williams  References External links Music Direct

The Metropolitan Park System of Greater Boston is  a system of reservations, parks, parkways and roads under the control of the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation (DCR) in and around Boston that has been in existence for over a century. The title is used by the DCR to describe the areas collectively: "As a whole, the Metropolitan Park System is currently eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places", as outlined on the department's website. The DCR maintains a separate Urban Parks and Recreation division to oversee the system, one of five such divisions within the department—DCR's Bureau of State Parks and Recreation manages the remainder of Massachusetts state parks. Direct design and maintenance functions for the parkways and roads within the system are provided by the DCR Bureau of Engineering. The park system consists of coastal reservations and beaches including Revere Beach, river reservations along the three major rivers in the area, such as the Charles River Reservation, and woodland reservations exemplified by Blue Hills Reservation south of the city. In addition, parks focusing on local history are located in Lynn and Roxbury. The DCR also manages a system of parkways which serve to connect the urban public to the open spaces; among these are busy streets such as Jamaicaway in Boston as well as secluded park roadways in uninhabited areas such as the Blue Hills Reservation Parkways.  History The improvement of areas of undeveloped land, detrimental development, and polluted land in and around Boston for a system of interconnected parks was first conceived and promoted by landscape architects Charles Eliot and Warren H. Manning, as well as Sylvester Baxter, a Boston newspaper writer and city planning enthusiast. Eliot and Manning had apprenticed with Frederick Law Olmsted and Eliot later assumed leadership of Olmsted's design firm in 1893, with Manning leaving the firm in 1896. Olmsted had been responsible for the development of Central Park in Manhattan and with Eliot had worked to create Boston's Emerald Necklace, a string of connected parks and waterways. Eliot and Manning were instrumental in the founding of The Trustees of Public Reservations (now The Trustees of Reservations) and the public Metropolitan Parks Commission in the 1890s and envisioned an expansion of the parks network to areas surrounding Boston. The Metropolitan Park Commission was established in 1892 and appointed by the legislature. It consisted of Charles Francis Adams, Jr., Philip A. Chase and William B. de las Casas. The commission hired Baxter to serve as secretary and Eliot as landscape architect. The first five areas acquired by the commission for the system in 1893 were the Beaver Brook, Blue Hills, Hemlock Gorge, Middlesex Fells and Stony Brook Reservations. By 1900, the system had expanded to include several constructed or planned parkways and added beach reservations at King's Beach in Lynn, Nantasket Beach in Hull, Quincy Shore, Revere Beach, and reservations along the Charles, Mystic and Neponset Rivers. Architect William D. Austin designed many buildings for the commission. In 1919, the commission was renamed the Metropolitan District Commission (MDC) after merging with the Metropolitan Water and Sewer Commission. Through the next 80 years the MDC became increasingly politicized and known as a haven for political patronage. Following a series of failures within the commission resulting in the pollution of Boston Harbor in the 1970s, the City of Quincy sued the MDC and the separate Boston Water and Sewer Commission in 1982, charging unchecked systemic pollution of the city’s waterfront. That suit was followed by one by the Conservation Law Foundation and finally by the United States Government, resulting in a landmark court-ordered cleanup of Boston Harbor. The lawsuits forced then Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis to propose separating the water and sewer treatment divisions from the MDC, resulting in the creation of the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority in 1985. Charges of political corruption and patronage continued to follow the MDC, while the loss of revenue from removal of the payments brought in by water and sewer services created a need for increased funding from the state legislature. The situation resulted in calls for the dismantlement of the MDC, which was realized when the MDC was dissolved by legislation in 2003. The Metropolitan Park System and other operations of the MDC were merged with the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Management to form the current Department of Conservation and Recreation.  In 2009, a study concerning the transfer of DCR managed roadways to the Massachusetts Department of Transportation was begun, following the transfer of all DCR non-pedestrian bridges as part of a major transportation reform law enacted that year.  Parks and reservations The following table lists parks and reservations currently owned and maintained by the DCR Division of Urban Parks and Recreation, subdivided into sections based on environment as stated by the DCR, with year of formation, location within municipalities, site area and primary activities listed:   == Notes ==

Mount Shand is a 12,660 ft (3,860 m) elevation glaciated summit located at the head of the Trident Glacier in the eastern Alaska Range, in Alaska, United States. It is the third-highest peak in the Hayes Range, a subset of the Alaska Range. This remote peak is situated 9.8 mi (16 km) east-southeast of Mount Hayes, and 93 mi (150 km) southeast of Fairbanks. Mount Moffit, the nearest higher neighbor, is set 2.3 mi (4 km) to the northeast, and McGinnis Peak is positioned 4.5 mi (7 km) to the east. This rarely climbed mountain has three large sweeping faces, the East, West, and South. This mountain is named for William Shand Jr. (1918–1946), a mountaineer who made the first ascents of nearby Mount Moffit in August 1942, and Mount Hayes on August 1, 1941. Following Shand's untimely death in a tragic car crash,  Bradford Washburn, also of the Hayes first ascent party, proposed this name in 1949 to be applied to what is now called Mount Moffit. The present application of the name was suggested in 1961 by the U.S. Geological Survey to resolve the conflict of two names applied to the same geographic feature. The name and summit location was officially adopted in 1962 by the U.S. Board on Geographic Names.  Climate Based on the Köppen climate classification, Mount Shand is located in a subarctic climate zone with long, cold, snowy winters, and mild summers. This climate supports the Trident and Black Rapids Glaciers surrounding this peak. Temperatures can drop below −20 °C with wind chill factors below −30 °C. The months May through June offer the most favorable weather for climbing or viewing. Precipitation runoff from the mountain drains into tributaries of the Tanana River drainage basin.  See also List of mountain peaks of Alaska Geology of Alaska  References Gallery External links William Shand Jr: biography Mount Shand: Flickr photo Summit detail: Flickr photo Weather forecast: Mount Shand

Lithuanian Air Lines (Lithuanian: Lietuvos oro linijos) was a national state-owned airline of Lithuania, operating in 1938–1940. Its hub was in Kaunas Aleksotas (S. Darius and S. Girėnas) airport.  Establishment The idea of Lithuanian national airline was first launched in spring of 1922. At least two companies – American Lithuanians' Trade Company (Lithuanian: Amerikos lietuvių prekybos bendrovė) and insurance company Lietuvos Lloydas submitted their proposals for the concession. Despite the first bidder had backing from Junkers and the second - from Sablatnig, the Lithuanian government did not follow the examples of neighbouring Latvia and Estonia, which facilitated the emergence of respectively Latvijas Gaisa Satiksmes Akciju Sabiedriba and Aeronaut. The main arguments behind such reluctance were the lack of personnel and airfields. Air passenger services in Lithuania were launched in 1922 and until 1938 were provided exclusively by foreign airlines, flying mostly transit routes: Deruluft, Danziger Luftreederei, Latvijas Gaisa Satiksmes Akciju Sabiedriba, Aeronaut, AB Aerotransport, Deutsche Luft Hansa, LOT. The issues of national airline rose anew in 1933 after the tragic trans-Atlantic flight of Darius and Girėnas. In 1934 the Lithuanian Aero Club requested the Ministry of Communications for financial assistance for domestic Kaunas-Klaipėda route to be served by a three-seater plane. As the idea was picked up by the press and the state-run news agency ELTA, the following year, 1935, witnessed an expanded suggestion by the Aero Club to establish air links with some important country centres as well. Then, an indirect support came from Latvia where a domestic air route Riga-Liepaja served by state owned Valsts gaisa satiksme was inaugurated on May 15, 1937. In 1934 the Inspectorate for Aerial Communication (Lithuanian: Orinio susisiekimo inspekcija) was established under the Ministry of Communication. One of its priorities was the establishment of national airline. Several routes were considered, including circular Kaunas–Klaipėda–Šiauliai–Kaunas service, connecting three largest cities of then Republic of Lithuania. Lithuanian Air Lines was officially established on 20 September 1938 in Kaunas. The airline was established by the Inspectorate for Aerial Communication and the acquisition of the aircraft was funded by the Ministry of Communication. Jonas Dženkaitis and Simas Mockūnas  both former military pilots, dismissed from the Air Force for participation in 1934 attempted coup, became the first pilots of the airline, and in 1937 were sent for training to Germany with Deutsche Luft Hansa. The first revenue flight took place before the official establishment of the company, on 5 September 1938. Short operational season of 1938 (September 5–17) served only for test flights on Kaunas-Palanga route.  Fleet Lithuanian Air Lines operated two twin-engine Percival Q.6 Petrel aircraft, carrying 6 (in some sources - 5) passengers. The choice of an aircraft was based on the data of Deutsche Luft Hansa, showing 40% passenger load factor for 8-10 seater passenger planes on domestic German flights. The aircraft were registered as LY-SOA and LY-SOB and named after trans-Atlantic pilots, respectively Stepas Darius and Stasys Girėnas. The names were printed on the port side under cockpit's windows. Aircraft were used for commercial services on Kaunas Aleksotas – Palanga route as well as for government services. The aircraft were painted in overall aluminum dope livery with blue longitudinal line crossing the length of the fuselage. Company's name, plane's names and registration numbers were also in blue.  Operation Lithuanian Air Lines operated only during the summer season, offering twice daily services on the 1 hour-long Kaunas-Palanga service. Initially planned service Kaunas-Klaipėda (Rumpiškės airfield) had to be cancelled in March 1939, due to annexation of Klaipėda by the Nazi Germany. Instead a flight was re-routed to popular coastal resort of Palanga. After speedy improvements at Palanga airfield, which included building up a passenger terminal, office for airline staff and a radio station for communication with the planes in flight, the regular service on Kaunas–Palanga route was launched on 3 June 1939. The same year first international flight to Spilve airport in Riga (Latvia) was introduced. During 1938, a total of 34 revenue flights were made, 7,480 km flown, 31 passenger carried. During 1939, a total of 216 flights were made, 764 passengers, 3,546 kg of baggage and 3,476 of mail carried. Post of Lithuania has introduced special stamp for the items mailed on the domestic air mail service; such numbered envelopes soon became numismatic rarity and an object of forgery.  End of operation and legacy Activities the Lithuanian Air Lines were officially stopped on 16 June 1940, the day of Lithuania's occupation by the Soviet Union, when all flights, including civilian ones, were grounded by the order of the Soviet military. After the formal annexation of Lithuania by the Soviet Union (3 August 1940), the aircraft of the former Lithuanian Air Lines were transferred to the Soviet airline Aeroflot. The latter employed both aircraft on the Riga-Velikye Luki and Riga-Moscow routes at least until mid-1941. The second attempt to create national airline of Lithuania took place only in September 1991, when on the basis of nationalized Aeroflot section of Lithuania a state owned airline Lithuanian Airlines was established.  Literature Duoniela, Vytautas (2016-12-31). "The First Flight KAUNAS – PALANGA, 1939". Lithuanian Philately. Retrieved 2021-02-02. Lietuvos oro transportas, Visuotinė lietuvių enciklopedija, https://www.vle.lt/straipsnis/lietuvos-oro-transportas/ Retrieved 2021-02-02. Peseckas, Vytautas, Orinis susisiekimas Nepriklausomoje Lietuvoje, Plieno Sparnai, http://www.plienosparnai.lt/page.php?282 "Prisimenant pirmuosius Lietuvos Oro linijų lėktuvus". technologijos.lt, http://www.technologijos.lt/n/technologijos/lektuvai_ir_aviacija/S-36666/straipsnis/Prisimenant-pirmuosius-Lietuvos-Oro-liniju-lektuvus-Foto Retrieved 2021-05-04.   == References ==

3 Bealls Holding Corp.  was a Texan chain of department stores, owned by Stage Stores Inc. and headquartered in Houston, Texas.  The store specialized in retailing desirable brand name apparel, accessories, cosmetics, footwear, and housewares. On May 11, 2020, it was announced that Stage had filed for bankruptcy and they soon began liquidating all locations. The chain overlapped with the Florida-based Bealls chain, although the two were not related. In markets where the two chains overlapped, the Florida chain operates as Burkes Outlet instead. However, on October 21, 2020, as part of winding-down its operations, Stage sold its intellectual property, including the national rights to use the Bealls name, to the Florida Bealls for $7 million. Bealls also acquired the rights to the names of Stage's other chains, all of its private label brands and customer lists, and a distribution center in Jacksonville, Texas.  History The first Beall store was opened in Henderson, Texas, in 1923 by brothers Archie and Robbie (and later, Willie).  The Bealls opened a second store in Nacogdoches in 1926 and a third in Mt. Pleasant in 1927. By 1930, there were seven stores in the chain.  The Beall brothers won bids for the business of J.L. Douglas, a Jacksonville merchant.  This move would establish Jacksonville as a permanent home office for the growing chain (as well as its eighth store).  The Beall brothers decided to file for incorporation of the chain during this time. In 1935, the home office moved to the Mayfield Building in downtown Jacksonville.  The Jacksonville store location would move in 1936 from the old Douglas building to the corner of Main and Commerce streets, where it would remain for nearly 50 years.  By 1940, Bealls had 15 stores in the chain. Despite World War II, store count by 1950 had grown to 19.  Continued growth of the chain led to 38 locations by 1957.  Bealls shifted their home office and warehousing to a new location on East Rusk Street in Jacksonville, east of downtown.  In the 1960s, a chain-wide modernization of store interiors and operations was underway and more name-brand items could be found in stores. In 1972, Bealls had grown to 60 stores in Texas and found its way beyond the borders of its home state for the first time, with a location opened in Oklahoma.  Bealls had reached most parts of Texas, except for the far west and the Panhandle.  Meanwhile, three of Robbie Beall's sons were now in high-level positions with the company; Royce and Ray were now vice-presidents and R.G. was serving as president of Bealls. The 1980s brought more changes on the homefront.  Buying operations were moved away from Jacksonville to the Las Colinas area of Irving, Texas, in 1983.  This move ensured close proximity to many manufacturer's representatives of the apparel industry; most had local offices and showrooms in the Dallas Market Center area.  By 1984, Bealls moved its long-time downtown Jacksonville store operation to a new location on South Jackson Street.  A new warehouse and distribution center took shape on the north side of Jacksonville, replacing the warehouse that occupied the rear of the headquarters building.  The new operation was opened in 1986. In 1988, Royce and Ray Beall announced plans to sell Beall's due to the vote of shares by shareholders to sell the company, this effort was led in part by other family members of Jacksonville. The 13% voted against the sale.  During the mid- to late 1980s the company was hit particular hard when the oil revenues in the state of Texas plummeted that resulted in a downturn for the state.  This forced the company to quit paying dividends thus in turn stockholders became aggressive to sell the company at bargain prices.  Operations of Beall's was combined with those of Houston-based Palais Royal (also bought out by Bain, etc. at the same time) and formed a new company, Specialty Retailers, Inc.  The combined company would be based in Houston.  There were 152 Bealls stores in the chain by this time: Texas had 128, Oklahoma had 11, New Mexico had 10, and there were 3 stores in Alabama.  This was a shock to Jacksonville, whose residents and those in the business community considered Bealls to be a good neighbor and corporate citizen.  Jacksonville was spared a complete loss, as the new distribution center would stay open, and the credit department of the combined company would be located at the previous Bealls office east of downtown. Also remaining would be the former flagship store of the company, where it still remains, on South Jackson. By the early-mid 1990s, Specialty Retailers, Inc. would come to encompass another name, Stage Stores. Stage Stores operated more than 850 stores in 40 states under the Bealls (no relation to the Bealls chain in Florida), Palais Royal, Peebles, Stage, and Goody's nameplates. Brands exclusively found at Bealls include Valerie Stevens, Signature Studio, Sun River, Rustic Blue, Rebecca Malone, and Wishful Park. On May 10, 2020, Stage announced it had filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy, and that it would liquidate all locations, Bealls and Gordmans included, unless a buyer could be found for the chain. No buyer had been found, and going out of business sales had begun at all locations.  References External links Official website (Archive) Brief history of Bealls (covering the years 1926–1972)

164 Eva is a main-belt asteroid that was discovered by the French brothers Paul Henry and Prosper Henry on July 12, 1876, in Paris. The reason the name Eva was chosen remains unknown, though Karl Ludwig Littrow suspected a "worldly origin" ("Mit dem Namen könnten wir wie bei Miriam wieder den biblischen Boden zu betreten glauben, wenn wir bei diesem Entdecker nicht an Taufen weltlichen Ursprungs gewöhnt wären"). The orbital elements for 164 Eva were published in 1877 by American astronomer Winslow Upton. It is categorized as a C-type asteroid and is probably composed of primitive carbonaceous chondritic materials. Photometric observations of this asteroid at the Palmer Divide Observatory in Colorado Springs, Colorado, during 2008 gave a light curve with a period of 13.672 ± 0.003 hours and a small brightness variation of 0.04 ± 0.01 in magnitude. This is consistent with a previous study reported in 1982 that listed a period estimate of 13.66 hours. Between 2000 and 2021, 164 Eva has been observed to occult fourteen stars. With a perihelion of 1.718 AU 164 Eva is the closest asteroid over 100 kilometers to approach the orbit of Mars. Its closest approach is about 0.05 AU or about 19.5 lunar distances.  References External links Lightcurve plot of 164 Eva, Palmer Divide Observatory, B. D. Warner (2008) Asteroid Lightcurve Database (LCDB), query form (info Archived 16 December 2017 at the Wayback Machine) Dictionary of Minor Planet Names, Google books Asteroids and comets rotation curves, CdR – Observatoire de Genève, Raoul Behrend Discovery Circumstances: Numbered Minor Planets (1)-(5000) – Minor Planet Center 164 Eva at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info 164 Eva at the JPL Small-Body Database

A list of roads in Kazakhstan.  Systems The codes are in Latin, and thus, transliteration is not required (for example writing "P" as "R"). The highways of general government ("Republican") Significance are divided into three groups whose names differ by a code letter:  М – international highways; their names and kilometer was retained by the road network of the Soviet Union A – Highways military strategy between the main administrative, cultural and economic centers of Kazakhstan and neighboring countries as well as roads significance P – other (regional) roads of national importance There also are highways of Regional significance. Each region's highways get their own specific codes. The codes are in Latin, and thus, transliteration is not required.  Abai Region, East Kazakhstan Region: KF, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Akmola Region: KC, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Aktobe Region: KD, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Almaty Region, Jetisu Region: KB, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Atyrau Region: KE, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Jambyl Region: KH, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Karaganda Region, Ulytau Region: KM, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Kostanay Region: KP, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Kyzylorda Region: KN, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Mangystau Region: KR, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) North Kazakhstan Region: KT, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Pavlodar Region: KS', and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) Turkistan Region: KX, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive) West Kazakhstan Region: KL, and the list of highways can be seen from this link (Archive)  International highways National Highways Regional Highways License plate Code References See also Full List from 2021 (in Russia) https://adilet.zan.kz/rus/docs/V2100024613 (Archive)

La Rioja (Spanish pronunciation: [la ˈrjoxa]), officially Province of La Rioja is a province of Argentina located in the west of the country. The landscape of the province consist of a series of arid to semi-arid mountain ranges and agricultural valleys in between. It is in one of these valleys that the capital of the province, the city of la La Rioja, lies. Neighboring provinces are, from the north clockwise, Catamarca, Córdoba, San Luis and San Juan. The dinosaur Riojasaurus is named after the province.  History Petroglyphs created by early indigenous peoples at the Talampaya National Park are dated around 10,000 years BC. Succeeding cultures of indigenous peoples developed here. The Diaguita, Capayan and the Olongasta peoples inhabited the territory of present-day La Rioja Province at the time of encounter with the Spanish colonists in the 16th century. Juan Ramírez de Velazco founded Todos Los Santos de la Nueva Rioja in 1591 under the government of Tucumán of the Viceroyalty of Peru. In 1630 the Calchaquí people revolted against the Spanish, but the governor Albornoz suppressed them. In 1783, after the creation of the Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata, the control of the province of 10,000 inhabitants passed to the Córdoba independency. The province acquired independence from Córdoba in 1820. Following attempts by Bernardino Rivadavia, the first elected President of Argentina, to impose a centralist constitution, the caudillo Juan Facundo Quiroga emerged as a popular leader. He represented their preference for more autonomy, for which they continued to press following Quiroga's 1835 assassination. After a period of internal instability in Argentina, the province finally joined the Argentine Confederation in 1853.  La Rioja attracted fewer immigrants from Europe than did other Argentine provinces from 1890 to the 1930s. Some Syrian and Lebanese immigrants did settle in the province, among whom the most well-known is probably the Menem family. Coming from what had been the Ottoman Empire, Saul Menem and his wife were of Armenian and Alawi ancestry. He prospered as a traveling salesman and sent his eldest son, Carlos Menem, to Spain for college. After the younger Menem was elected governor of La Rioja Province in March 1973, he implemented a number of reforms advocated by activists for the poor, rural majority, particularly those recommended by Bishop Enrique Angelelli. Removed and imprisoned following the military ouster of President Isabel Perón in March 1976, Menem was kept in illegal confinement until the end of 1980. He was reportedly tortured during this time. The dictatorship repressed people in the province and was responsible for the brutal murder in August 1976 of Bishop Angelelli. After democracy was restored in 1983, Menem was overwhelmingly re-elected to office. He pursued conservative policies, leveraging La Rioja's dry, agreeable climate, its modest wage scale, and skilled work-force, to attract La Rioja's first significant light industries, particularly bottling and food-processing. Having presided over a growing La Rioja economy even as the nation's languished during the 1980s, Menem secured the Peronist Justicialist Party nomination for president in May 1988; in an upset, he defeated the popular Governor Antonio Cafiero of Buenos Aires Province. Elected president of Argentina in 1988, Menem served until 1999. During those years, he steered billions in federal public works spending into La Rioja. Although the province remains less developed than the average in the nation, its economy today compares favorably with those of its neighbors.  Geography Located in the Argentine Northwest area, its landscape is arid to semi-arid, and the dry climate receives annually 200 mm of precipitation, has short winters, and very hot summers. From the Andes at the west, with peaks of up to 6,795 meters (Monte Pissis), the relief's height descends towards the sierras of the neighbouring dry Pampas zone. Most ranges in La Rioja are oriented north-south. The province's two largest cities, La Rioja and Chilecito are separated by Sierra de Velasco and west of Chilecito and Famatina rises the Sierra de Famatina with heights of up to 6,250 m.a.sl. (≈20500 feet). The Talampaya National Park is a dry red-soil canyon of the dry Talampaya river, which contains many cliff walls and rock formations that make it an interesting tourist destination.  Economy La Rioja's economy, estimated at US$1.822 billion in 2006, is the second-smallest among Argentina's provinces. Its per capita output of US$6,283, though about 30% below the national average, makes it the most well-developed in northern Argentina. Its economy is, likewise, very well-diversified. Agriculture (long limited by La Rioja's dry, mountainous terrain) adds less than 5% to its output. La Rioja's agriculture (as well as cities) lies on the banks of the few permanent rivers and oases that allow irrigation, with only 190 square kilometres of cultivated land. Vineyards, nuts and olive plantations are the most common, followed by cotton.  The province's main crop is the grape, and its associated wine production, especially around the Chilecito area, with a production of 8 million litres per year. Cattle (250,000 head) and goats (150,000 head) are secondary activities, particularly for skin and leather. Clay represents the main mining activity, and uranium is also extracted near El Colorado. Manufacturing in La Rioja has expanded considerably since Gov. Menem began attracting investment into the province, after 1983. Limited mostly to light industry like bottling and food processing, it, nevertheless, adds about 20% to La Rioja's output. Tourism is, likewise, an expanding activity. Besides the Talampaya National Park, tourists visiting La Rioja usually go also to the Chilecito town, Cerro de La Cruz, Termas de Santa Teresita hot springs and the village of Villa Sanagasta. Since 2024 it has its own currency.  Government The provincial government is divided into the usual three branches: the executive, headed by a popularly elected governor, who appoint the cabinet; the legislative; and the judiciary, headed by the Supreme Court. The Constitution of La Rioja Province, Argentina forms the formal law of the province. In Argentina, the most important law enforcement organization is the Argentine Federal Police but the additional work is carried out by the La Rioja Provincial Police.  Political divisions The province is divided in 18 departments (Spanish departamentos). They are formally considered to be a single municipality, and usually contain one or more population centers (i.e. towns and cities).  See also References External links  Gobierno de La Rioja Official website

Jiří Weil (; 6 August 1900, Praskolesy – 13 December 1959, Prague) was a Czech writer of Jewish origin and Holocaust survivor. His noted works include the two novels Life with a Star (Život s hvězdou), and Mendelssohn Is on the Roof (Na střeše je Mendelssohn), as well as many short stories, and other novels.  Biography Weil was born in Praskolesy, a village about 40 kilometres from Prague, on 6 August 1900. He was the second son born to upper-middle-class Orthodox Jewish parents. Weil graduated from secondary school in 1919. As a student he had already begun writing mainly verses, but had also begun planning his three-part novel, Město, which he planned to publish under the pseudonym, Jiří Wilde. Upon graduation, Weil was accepted to Charles University in Prague where he entered the Department of Philosophy and also studied Slavic philology and comparative literature. He was a favourite student of F. X. Šalda. He completed his doctoral dissertation, "Gogol and the English Novel of the 18th Century", in 1928. In 1921, Weil joined the Young Communists and attained a position of leadership in the group. He had a keen interest in Russian literature and Soviet culture. About that same time, his first articles were published about cultural life in the Soviet Union in the Newspaper "Rudé Právo." He also became one of the first translators of contemporary Russian literature into the Czech language and bringing works by Boris Pasternak, Vladimir Lugovskoy and Marina Tsvetaeva to Czech readers. He was the first person to translate the works of Vladimir Mayakovsky into Czech. In 1922, Weil traveled for the first time to the Soviet Union with a youth delegation. He writes about an ill-fated meeting with the poet Sergei Esenin in his feuilleton, "Busta básníkova." Weil worked in Moscow from 1933 to 1935 as a journalist and translator of Marxist literature in the publishing department of the Comintern, the international wing of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. In this capacity, he helped translate Vladimir Lenin's "The State and Revolution" into Czech. After the 1934 assassination of Sergei Kirov, which marked the beginning of the Stalinist Purges, Weil found himself on shaky ground in Moscow and in the Communist party. He was expelled from the Communist Party and exiled to Central Asia. The circumstances of his expulsion and his subsequent deportation to Central Asia have never been fully explained, but these experiences marked a turning point for Weil. They are described in a samizdat biography by Weil's friend, Jaroslava Vondráčková, Mrazilo – tálo. In 1935, Weil returned to Prague and published his novel Moskva-hranice (1937), an account of the purges. The Munich Agreement heralded trouble for Europe's Jewish population, but Weil was unable to join relatives in Great Britain. During the Nazi occupation, Weil was assigned to work at the Jewish Museum in Prague. He was called to be interned at the Terezín (Theresienstadt) ghetto in November 1942, but he decided not to go, instead staging his own death. Weil survived the rest of the war by hiding in various illegal apartments, with several acquaintances and even spent time hiding in a hospital. Despite the tremendous hardship, Weil continued to write. After the war, Weil reintegrated into cultural life and from 1946 to 1948, he worked as an editor at ELK. He published a lyrical book of tributes to fallen comrades, Bárvy (Colours), a novel, Makanna otec divů, which won the Czechoslovak book prize that year, and a small book of reminiscences about Julius Fučík. After 1948, Weil lost his position and the press was nationalized. From 1949 on, Weil's work focuses on Jewish themes. His book Life with a Star, published without fanfare in 1949, is probably his best-known work. It received varying critical attention, but a firestorm of controversy over it erupted in 1951. Critics decried it as "decadent", "existentialist", "highly subjective" and "the product of a cowardly culture." It was roundly criticized from both an ideological and a religious standpoint and was banned. He resumed work at the Jewish Museum, where he was instrumental in the creation of an exhibition of children's drawings from Terezín, I Never Saw Another Butterfly, and the creation of a monument for Jewish citizens murdered by Nazis in the Pinkas Synagogue, for which he wrote a prose poem, Žalozpěv za 77 297 obětí. In the thaw following the death of Klement Gottwald, Weil was readmitted to the Writers' Union. Weil worked continuously until his death from leukemia in 1959.  Weil's legacy In recent years, Weil's "Star" is considered a classic. According to Philip Roth (who was largely responsible for introducing Weil to American readers) the book is "without a doubt, one of the outstanding novels I've read about the fate of a Jew under the Nazis. I don't know another like it." Michiko Kakutani adds that it is "one of the most powerful works to emerge from the Holocaust: it is a fierce and necessary work of art." And Siri Hustvedt has written ; "When I mention this astounding novel to people, I am almost always met with blankness. It may be that its subject matter, the Nazi occupation of Prague, is grim. I don't know. What I do know is that I read the book when it came out – (the English translation, published in 1989, 40 years after its first publication in Czechoslovakia) – and it burned itself into me. The words German, Nazi and Jew never appear. There is nothing coy about these omissions. They are essential to the novel's uncanny immediacy, its urgent telling of a human story which, despite its particularity, refuses to locate itself in the past." Beyond "Life with a Star" and "Mendelssohn is on the Roof" Weil's fiction is woefully underrepresented in English-language translations. At this writing, his other novels have not been translated into English but an edition of "Colors" is available through Michigan Slavic Publications. Only Life with a Star and Mendelssohn is on the Roof, Moskva-hranice, and Dřevená lžice have been reprinted in Czech. The 110th anniversary of the birth of Jiří Weil marked by premiere of concert performance of a ballet "MAKANNA" written by the Czech composer and organist Irena Kosíková, based on his novel Makanna otec divů. The concert featured Jan Židlický as narrator, the Czech cellist František Brikcius and the Talich Chamber Orchestra conducted by Maestro Jan Talich. "Makanna" was held under the auspices of Sir Tom Stoppard and Václav Havel to commemorate the 110th anniversary of the birth of Jiří Weil (1900–1959) and as part of the "Daniel Pearl World Music Days" and made possible by the cooperation of the National Gallery, the Jewish Museum in Prague, and the City of Prague.  Work Ruská revoluční literatura, 1924 Kulturní práce sovětského Ruska, 1924 Češi stavějí v zemi pětiletek, 1937 Moskva-hranice, 1937 Makanna, otec divů, 1946. Barvy, 1946 Vzpomínky na Julia Fučíka, 1947 Life with a Star, 1949 Mír, 1949 Vězeň chillonský, 1957 Harfeník, 1958 Žalozpěv za 77 297 obětí, 1958, English translation Lamentation for 77,297 Victims. Prague: Karolinum Press (2021). ISBN 9788024645339. Na střeše je Mendelssohn, 1959 Hodina pravdy, hodina zkoušky, 1966 Moskva-Hranice, 1991 Dřevěná lžíce, 1992  Sources Translated and condensed from "Die juedische Thematik in Werk Jiri Weils" Magisterarbeit von Andrea Daniela Schutte, 2004, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität zu Bonn, Philosophischen Fakultät, Digitale Osteuropa-Bibliothek: Sprache und Kultur 1  Bibliography in English Life with a Star ISBN 0-14-118695-X Mendelssohn is on the Roof ISBN 0-374-20810-7 Weil, Jirí (2021). Lamentation for 77,297 Victims. Karolinum Press. ISBN 978-80-246-4533-9.  References National Library CR – Jiri Weil's list of books  External links JEDLIČKOVÁ, ALICE (1989). "Jiří Weil: Život s hvězdou (1949)". Česká literatura. 37 (4): 353–357. ISSN 0009-0468. JSTOR 43742654. Daninhirsch, Hilary. "Weil's 'Life with a Star' pairs Holocaust reality with inspiring hope". jewishchronicle.timesofisrael.com. Retrieved 8 November 2020. Alter, Robert (6 August 1992). "Paying for the paper". London Review of Books. Retrieved 8 November 2020. Holý, Jiří (2011). "Židé, antisemitský diskurz a dvojí zpracování tématu šoa ve střední Evropě". Česká literatura. 59 (6): 887–895. ISSN 0009-0468. JSTOR 42687816.

Impeachment or removal from office is a mechanism for removing a government official from office. In Oklahoma, impeachment of state officials is governed by the Oklahoma Constitution and covers statewide elected officials. Removal from office is governed by statute and applies to other elected officials in the state. While there is no mechanism for recall elections of state officials, some municipal governments in Oklahoma allow for recall petitions and elections to remove officials from office. Tribal nations in Oklahoma have their own constitutions and may have their own mechanisms for impeaching tribal officials. The following is a list of officials impeached or removed from office in the U.S. State of Oklahoma.  Statewide officials Impeached and removed Giles W. Farris (State Printer), removed from office on February 26, 1913, after the state's first impeachment trial A. P. Watson (Corporation Commissioner), removed from office on April 23, 1915, becoming the second official to be impeached in Oklahoma history Jack C. Walton (Governor), removed from office in November 1923 after attempting to use the Oklahoma National Guard to prevent his impeachment Henry S. Johnston (Governor), removed from office in March 1929 for "general incompetence." Napoleon Bonaparte Johnson (Supreme Court Justice), impeached and removed from office during the 1965 Oklahoma Supreme Court scandal  Impeached and resigned P. A. Ballard (Insurance Commissioner), resigned on April 29, 1913, after his impeachment by the Oklahoma House of Representatives  Resigned after impeachment filed Leo Meyer (Auditor), resigned February 12, 1913, after the Oklahoma House of Representatives began impeachment proceedings Samuel Earl Welch (Supreme Court Justice), resigned during the 1965 Oklahoma Supreme Court scandal  Municipal officials Removed from office Frank M. Wooden, the only Mayor of Tulsa removed from office  Recall elections Judd Blevins, was recalled from the Enid City Commission on April 2, 2024, after he admitted to marching at the Unite the Right Rally in 2017 and amidst allegations he served as the Oklahoma state coordinator for the now-defunct Identity Evropa.  Tribal officials John Red Eagle, Osage Nation Principal Chief impeached and removed from office in 2014   == References ==

The Israelite Church of God in Jesus Christ (ICGJC), formerly known as the Israeli Church of Universal Practical Knowledge, is an American organization of Black Hebrew Israelites. Its headquarters are in New York City, and in 2008 had churches in cities in 10 US states. They are not to be confused with Israel of God (IOG) or Israel The Church of Christ (ICOJ), Which are separate denominations of Black Hebrew Churches who believe in multicultural/multiethnic Messianic Judaism, and overall do not align with zionism.  The ICGJC is the second largest Black Hebrew Israelite organization in the United States, the first being the Israel United in Christ. Its leader (known as "Chief High Priest") until his death in April 2020 was Tazadaqyah.  The ICGJC has been described as openly antisemitic, racist, sexist and homophobic.  History The group formerly had its headquarters at One West 125th Street in Harlem, then known as the Israeli School of Universal Practical Knowledge, and its wider movement is known as the One West Camp, including offshoots such as the modern Israelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge.  Beliefs The ICGJC teaches that the descendants of the Twelve Lost Tribes and true biblical Jews are the Black Americans, West Indians, and Native Americans of North and South America and those scattered throughout the whole planet, but not the Jewish people  The group shows the Holy Bible reveals that the "Israelites are the so- called Blacks, Hispanics and Native American people and they have divine favor and inspiration and are superior to all nations on earth according to Deuteronomy 7:6. They also hold strong apocalyptic views regarding the end of the world. The ICGJC believes that Yahawashi (Jesus) is God's divine Son and Messiah, and the redeemer for the sins of the Israelites. the Old and New Testament and Apocrypha are inspired Scripture, but the group does not believe in the traditional doctrine of the Trinity.  Organization Ranking system Positions in the ICGJC which may only be filled by a high priest at the higher orders include Bishop, Chief Priest, Apostle, and/or Holy Apostle. These leaders are primarily responsible for the spiritual welfare of the members and the administration of local church units. However, they have also subservient positions that are filled by other men when they are "elevated by the spirit". Other positions are given the names ‘general’, ‘captain’ and ‘officer’.    Perhaps the most prominent leader of the organization was Tazadaqyah (Jermaine Grant), who rose in to power of the church in the late 1990s. Tazadaqyah was proclaimed by many of his followers to be the God-sent "Comforter" of the Nation of Israel. The ICGJC and its various splinter groups can be loosely grouped together as sects, which advocate a Hebrew and Authorized King James Version-only approach to the Bible (i.e. they endorse only the Hebrew/Greek and AKJV versions of the Bible), and the idea that Caucasians are Edomites.  Controversies Lawsuit over doll prototype In 2013, the ICGJC ordered action figures cast in the image of their leader (Chief High Priest Tazadaqyah) from a toymaker. When they received the dolls they sued the toymaker (Vicale Corp) because of the dolls complexion. The organization complained that the dolls did not look like Tazadaqyah and were not black enough, that the Connecticut toymaker put "pointed noses and faces" dolls; they also complained that half of them "were light brown" instead of "dark brown," according to the court papers.  Perceived enemies According to the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), the group sees white people as enemies, as they “are descended from  a race of red, hairy beings, known as Edomites, who were spawned by Esau, the twin brother of Jacob" (later known as Israel) in the Old Testament. Other enemies include "fraudulent" Jews (i.e., the people known to the world today as Jews), "the synagogue of Satan," Asians, promiscuous black women, abortionists, continental Africans (who, according to the ICGJC  and other extremist Israelites, "sold the lost tribes of Israel, who were black, to European slave traders"), and sodomites, who "according to extremist Israelites should all be put to death".  Allegations of black supremacy and racism In late 2008, the SPLC described the ICGJC and other black supremacist Hebrew Israelite groups as  "the extremist fringe" of the movement. It wrote that the members of such groups "believe that Jews are devilish impostors and ... openly condemn whites as evil personified, deserving only death or slavery". The SPLC also said that "most Hebrew Israelites are neither explicitly racist nor anti-Semitic and do not advocate violence". In 2017, they listed the group as a black nationalist hate group. The Black Hebrew groups characterized as black supremacist by the SPLC include the Nation of Yahweh and the ICGJC. Also, the Anti-Defamation League has written that the "12 Tribes of Israel" website, maintained by a Black Hebrew group, promotes hatred and black supremacy.  Fraud and tax evasion charges and death of Tazadaqyah In April 2018, the organization’s leader Jermaine Grant, known as Tazadaqyah, and the treasurer, Lincoln Warrington, were arrested on fraud and tax charges. The United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey alleged the men "used their positions to divert millions of dollars for Grant’s personal use and benefit." Grant and Warrington pleaded guilty to evading tax after using an entertainment company to divert funds from members, spending $5.3 million on a lavish lifestyle without declaring the money to the government. In January 2020, Grant was sentenced to 18 months in federal prison while Warrington was sentenced to 12 months and a day. They were also to be under three years of supervised release. The federal prison system has no offer of parole. Before he was to report to prison, Grant died on April 1, 2020, from complications of COVID-19. Some former members described Grant as a cult leader who had gained complete influence of his follower’s lives through manipulation and belittlement.  See also African-American – Jewish relations#Black Hebrew Israelites Afro-American religion Native American fascism Alliance of Black Jews Groups claiming an affiliation with the ancient Israelites  References External links ICGJC Holy Conception Unit ICGJC Pittsburgh Division

Empire is an American musical drama television series created by Lee Daniels and Danny Strong for Fox that ran from January 7, 2015, to April 21, 2020. It is a joint production by Imagine Television and 20th Century Fox Television and syndicated by 20th Television. Although it is filmed in Chicago, the show is set in New York. The series centers on the fictional hip hop music and entertainment company Empire Entertainment, and the drama among the members of the founders' family as they fight for control of it. It stars Terrence Howard, Taraji P. Henson, Bryshere Y. Gray, Jussie Smollett and Trai Byers as members of the Lyon Family, along with a supporting cast including Grace Byers, Kaitlin Doubleday, Gabourey Sidibe, Ta'Rhonda Jones, Serayah, Malik Yoba and Vivica A. Fox. The series premiered on January 7, 2015, to nearly 10 million viewers while the first-season finale was watched by 17 million viewers. Its first season received positive reviews from critics, who praised its acting, particularly Henson's, its direction, soundtrack, writing, costumes, editing and the overall tone of the show, with many critics describing it as a "fresh take on a musical". Subsequent seasons also received positive reviews, with its second season being the most well received. During its run, it was one of the most-watched television shows on Fox. On April 30, 2019, Fox renewed the show for the sixth and final season, and the first without Smollett, who was confirmed to not be returning after he was charged with filing a false police report in an incident in which he staged an assault and hate crime. The season premiered on September 24, 2019, and the series concluded on April 21, 2020. A spin-off of the series, centered around Taraji P. Henson's character, Cookie Lyon, was set to launch in 2020. However, Fox passed on the pilot, and it was being shopped to other networks. It has since been axed altogether.  Premise Lucious Lyon (Terrence Howard) is a hip hop mogul, former drug dealer, and CEO of Empire Entertainment. Informed of his own imminent early death from ALS, Lucious is forced to choose, from amongst his progeny, a successor who will control his dynasty after his demise. He begins working to groom one of his three sons to take over the family business – Empire CFO Andre (Trai Byers), R&B singer-songwriter Jamal (Jussie Smollett), and rapper Hakeem (Bryshere Y. Gray). In the process, Lucious pits them against each other. Lucious' ex-wife Cookie Lyon (Taraji P. Henson) is released from prison after serving a 17-year sentence, and also pulls for control of both the company and of her sons.  Cast and characters Terrence Howard as Lucious Lyon, né Dwight Walker A former drug dealer turned hip-hop mogul and the founder and long-time CEO of Empire Entertainment, his life begins to cave in around him after his past sins come back to haunt him when he is diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Besides Cookie, Lucious' other lovers were Anika (seasons 1 & 3) ,Giulana (season 4) & Yana (season 6). Taraji P. Henson as Loretha "Cookie" Lyon, née Holloway Lucious' outspoken wife and mother of their three sons. She serves a 17-year prison sentence for drug dealing and sees herself as the sacrificial lamb for Empire Entertainment, which she built with Lucious, but then took the fall for him while running the very drugs that financed Lucious' early career. Upon her return from prison, she is determined to bring the Lyon family back together and reclaim her share of Empire Entertainment. In the second season, Cookie leaves the Empire group and starts her own record label, Lyon Dynasty. After allowing Empire Entertainment to acquire Lyon Dynasty, she returns to Empire as co-CEO and Head of A&R. Bryshere Y. Gray as Hakeem Lyon Lucious' fame-obsessed youngest son and his favorite child, who is a hip-hop star on the rise. Initially combative towards his mother Cookie, Hakeem starts to become friendlier towards her, and has a great relationship with his older brother Jamal. He has had romantic relationships with Tiana, Camilla, Anika, Valentina, Laura and Maya (the latter who becomes his wife in the sixth season). Jussie Smollett as Jamal Lyon (seasons 1–5) The middle son of the Lyon family, he is a talented gay singer-songwriter who despises the corporate aspect of the music industry. Jamal is estranged from his father, who considers him the black sheep of the family. Jamal is Cookie's favorite and has a strong relationship with his brother Hakeem. Lucious appoints Jamal as his successor at the end of the first season, and later as interim CEO when Lucious is arrested. Jamal later relinquishes control of Empire back to Lucious. After being accidentally shot by Freda Gatz in Season 2, Jamal begins to present symptoms of PTSD and a reliance on painkillers. His addiction ultimately leads to a visit to rehab. Smollett's character was removed from the last two episodes of the fifth season after Smollett was indicted on charges of staging an assault against himself. Smollett's character does not return for the sixth and final season, but he is mentioned with him and his new husband Kai moving to London and adopting a baby boy. Despite not appearing in the sixth season, nor being credited, the option in Smollett's contract for the sixth season was picked up. Trai Byers as Andre Lyon The eldest son of the Lyon family and CFO of Empire Entertainment. He is Wharton educated, power hungry, and has bipolar disorder. He is married to his college sweetheart, Rhonda. He plans to run Empire, but is in a battle for the head chair with his younger brothers. In the second season, Andre initially helps Cookie and Hakeem set up Lyon Dynasty, but returns to Empire. Lucious later promotes Andre to President of Gutter Life Records, a sub-division of Empire Entertainment consisting of mainly urban rappers, such as Freda Gatz. In Season 3, 4 & 5, he loses his wife and becomes involved with Nessa, Charlotte, Pamela and Teri (the latter who becomes his new wife in the season 5 finale). Grace Byers as Anika Calhoun (seasons 1–4) Initially the ambitious head of Empire Entertainment's A&R department, she becomes engaged to Lucious though they will eventually separate. After leaving Empire, Anika has sex with Hakeem and becomes pregnant. Fearful of Rhonda's pregnancy, as Rhonda's unborn child has claim to being the heir of Empire, Anika pushes Rhonda down a set of stairs, leading to the death of Rhonda's unborn child. Cookie and Anika share an extreme dislike for one another, with Cookie referring to Anika by the derisive nickname "Boo Boo Kitty". After taking over the Lyon's dynasty, Andre drugs Anika's drink and she starts to have hallucinations of Rhonda down the stairs to her death. She then also has flashbacks of Andres' process of drugging her and how he played all his cards like a Lyon does to get her to lose her mind to save his family dynasty. She then falls over the balcony, plummets, and lands on a glass champagne table and bleeds out into her death and the last face that she sees is the hallucinated face of Rhonda. She dies in the season 4 finale. Malik Yoba as Vernon Turner (season 1; dead guest in Season 2) Lucious's longtime friend and business partner, and chairman of Empire Entertainment. In the season one finale, Vernon is struck and killed by Rhonda when he attacks Andre, and both end up hiding the body. Kaitlin Doubleday as Rhonda Lyon (seasons 1–2; recurring in season 3; guest in season 4) Andre's wife is a "ride-or-die chick" who is extremely fierce and loyal, and sticks by Andre's side as he tries to gain control of Empire. In the first-season finale she finds out that she is pregnant, but Anika pushes her down the stairs in the second season fall finale, and the baby dies in the second-season spring premiere. After her recovery, Rhonda begins to work for Empire's fashion label, "Antony and Cleopatra", initially run by Camilla Marks-Whiteman. After Camilla's suicide, Rhonda is appointed Creative Director of Antony and Cleopatra. In the third-season premiere, she attacks Anika due to finding out Anika had pushed her down the stairs earlier in the season, causing her to lose her unborn son. As a result, she falls off the building she and Anika were fighting on, lands on a car, and dies. She makes numerous appearances to Andre as a ghost during his hallucinations in the third season. Ta'Rhonda Jones as Porsha Taylor (season 2–6; recurring in season 1) Cookie's executive assistant. Gabourey Sidibe as Rebecca "Becky" Williams (season 2–6; recurring in season 1) Executive assistant to Lucious at Empire Entertainment. After Jamal's promotion to Vice Chairman, Jamal promotes Becky to A&R at Empire and its sub-label, Gutter Life Records. In season 4, she had taken Anika's position as Head of A&R requested by Cookie. Serayah as Tiana Brown (seasons 2–6; recurring in season 1) An artist at Empire Entertainment who becomes Hakeem's girlfriend for some time. In season two, she leaves Empire for Lyon Dynasty. She also starts to get jealous of the relationship Hakeem has with Laura. In Season 3, she and Hakeem rekindle their relationship. At the beginning of Season 4 she remains happy being with Hakeem and looks after his daughter Bella whilst Anika is in jail. Halfway through the season she gets manipulated by Eddie Barker and turns down a proposal made by Hakeem. She continues to be manipulated by Eddie and becomes Empire's number one artist. After Hakeem tries to warn her about Eddie she breaks up with him again, but they quickly get back together after Tiana reveals to Hakeem that she's pregnant. In season 5, it's discovered that she was carrying twins and lost one as a result of not being taken seriously by the nurses whilst giving birth. By the end of the season, she ends up with Devon. In Season 6 she changes labels to Bossy Media and furthermore by the end of the season she remains single as of her and Devon separating due to her cheating on him with Hakeem. Tiana's lovers were Gram, Blake, Carlito, Devon and most significantly, Hakeem Lyon. Bre-Z as Freda Gathers/"Freda Gatz" (guest in season 6; season 3; recurring in season 2) A female rapper, who becomes a surrogate daughter to Lucious after the murder of her father, Frank Gathers. Lucious later sets up Freda to become Hakeem's rival. Morocco Omari as Tariq Cousins (season 3; recurring in season 2) An FBI Agent, who is also Lucious' half-brother. Xzibit as Leslie "Shyne" Johnson (season 3–4; guest in season 2 & 5) A former rival of Lucious Lyon that soon becomes a close ally, described as "100 percent wolf and 100 percent gangsta". Andre Royo as Thurston "Thirsty" Rawlings, (seasons 4–5; seasons 2−3 recurring) Lucious' lawyer/confidant/right-hand man. Rumer Willis as Tory Ash, (season 4; season 3 guest) A singer who fell off as an addict than becomes close friends with Jamal to betray him by working with Lucious. Terrell Carter as Warren Hall, (season 4) An attorney, Diana Dubois' nephew, Angelo's cousin and Jamal's ex. Nicole Ari Parker as Giselle Sims-Barker, (season 5–6; season 4 recurring) Eddie Barker's trophy ex-wife. Chet Hanks as Blake Sterling, (season 5; season 4 recurring) A rapper and Hakeem's friend. Rhyon Nicole Brown as Maya Landry-Lyon (seasons 5–6; season 4 recurring) The daughter of Cookie's fellow inmate Poundcake and Hakeem Lyon's current wife. She and Tiana share an extreme dislike towards one another with the former being jealous of Tiana's success and the latter feeling bitter about Maya's relationship with Hakeem. A.Z. Kelsey as Jeff Kingsley (seasons 5–6) Hotshot, Silicon Valley genius turned interim leader of Empire Entertainment. He is Ivy League educated with an edge and a dark secret. Lucious' illegitimate son. In the season five finale, Jeff commits suicide in front of Lucious, and his heart is given to Andre for a heart transplant. Vivica A. Fox as Candace Holloway Mason (season 6; seasons 2-5 recurring) Cookie's well-behaved but snobby and judgmental older sister. She is a realtor. Mario as Devon (season 6; season 5 recurring): Lucious' new artist and Tiana's new love interest. Meta Golding as Teri Brooks-Lyon (season 6; season 5 recurring) Andre's new wife and Quincy's mother. Katlynn Simone as Treasure (season 6; season 5 recurring) Formerly a prison social worker, but now an artist at Empire and Tiana's main rival. Wood Harris as Damon Cross (season 6; season 5 recurring) Lucious' rival and Cookie's new love interest.  Episodes Production Howard, Henson and Sidibe filmed the pilot episode in Chicago (Cinespace Chicago Film Studios) in March 2014. On May 6, 2014, Fox picked up Empire as a series order for its 2014–15 television schedule. On May 12, 2014, Fox announced that Empire would air as a midseason replacement, rather than as a part of the fall schedule. On November 19, 2014, it was confirmed that the pilot episode would premiere on January 7, 2015, following the season 14 premiere of American Idol. The executive producers are Brian Grazer, Danny Strong and Francie Calfo. The show is written by Strong while Lee Daniels, who has been nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director, made his television directorial debut with the show. According to Strong, the show is based in part on William Shakespeare's King Lear, and James Goldman's The Lion in Winter; Daniels also acknowledged a strong influence from the ABC prime-time soap opera Dynasty. Ilene Chaiken later joined the series as showrunner. On January 17, 2015, the series was renewed for an 18-episode second season, which premiered on September 23, 2015. The fourth season, consisting of eighteen episodes premiered on September 27, 2017, and crossed over with another Fox series co-created by Daniels, Star. On May 2, 2018, Fox renewed the series for a fifth season with Brett Mahoney taking over as showrunner from Ilene Chaiken. The season premiered on September 26, 2018. On April 15, 2019, The Hollywood Reporter reported that a judge was allowing 300 jailed youth to sue Fox for using their prison facility to film Empire. In March 2020, production of the final season was shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic, preventing the last episodes' filming.  Casting Howard was cast in the lead on February 19, 2014. Henson was named as the female lead on February 26, and Jussie Smollett was announced in a starring role. Howard and Henson previously starred together as love interests in the film Hustle & Flow, and starred in the 2005 film Four Brothers. On March 10, 2014, Sidibe, who had previously worked with Daniels in Precious, was cast in a recurring role as Becky, Lucious' assistant. Trai Byers and Grace Gealey were announced in regular roles, while Bryshere Y. Gray and Malik Yoba were announced in starring roles. Courtney Love was added to the cast on October 23, 2014. Naomi Campbell was announced in a recurring role on September 29, 2014. On June 2, 2015, it was announced Adam Rodriguez would join the cast in a recurring role in the second season of Empire, portraying Laz Delgado, a potential love interest for Cookie. In 2016, Phylicia Rashad was cast as a recurring guest star in the role of Diana DuBois in the third season of Empire. In February 2017, Rumer Willis joined the third season of Empire in a recurring role.  Jussie Smollett removal On January 22, 2019, Jussie Smollett filed a police report about a threatening letter sent to Fox Studios, where Empire is filmed. According to Smollett, the letter contained "threatening language" and a powdery substance believed to be crushed-up Tylenol. On January 29, 2019, Smollett reported that he was attacked by two men who shouted "homophobic and racial slurs" at him and then threw an "unknown chemical substance" on him. Smollett told police that they wrapped a rope around his neck and yelled "MAGA country", which references President Donald Trump's "Make America Great Again" (MAGA) slogan. Smollett was then hospitalized. On February 13, Chicago police arrested two "persons of interest". However, on February 14, 2019, it was revealed that police were investigating whether Smollett and the two men staged the attack because Smollett believed he was being written off Empire. Interrogations revealed that both men, the Osundairo brothers, were allegedly paid off by Smollett to stage the attack. On February 20, 2019, Smollett was indicted for filing a false police report. He faces a maximum of three years in prison. Subsequently, Smollett was removed from the last two episodes of the fifth season. In a written statement, the show's producers said that "While these allegations are very disturbing, we are placing our trust in the legal system as the process plays... We are also aware of the effects of this process on the cast and crew members who work on our show and to avoid further disruption on set, we have decided to remove the role of 'Jamal' from the final two episodes of the season." On March 26, it was announced that the charges against Smollett had been dropped, although he remains under federal investigation regarding a hate letter that is believed to have been written by Smollett himself. The fate of Smollett's character 'Jamal' currently remains unclear. On April 30, 2019, it was announced that, although Fox Entertainment had extended Smollett's contract for season six of Empire, there were no plans for the character to appear during the season. On June 4, 2019, series co-creator Lee Daniels officially announced that Smollett would not be returning for the sixth and final season. On December 9, 2021, Smollett was convicted on five of six counts brought against him by Special Prosecutor Dan Webb in the hoax case and is awaiting sentencing, where he faces up to three years in county jail for his fabricated police reports.  Accusations of plagiarism Clayton Prince, a Philadelphia native and actor who gained early notoriety for starring as Jericho "Gibs" Gibson in the CBS crime drama television series Dark Justice, sued Daniels over accusations of copyright infringement in 2016. Prince alleged that Daniels stole the idea for Empire after having pitched it to him at a Greater Philadelphia Film Office event in 2008. Cream, Prince's musical drama television show, revolved around an African-American record label executive who, after being diagnosed with a fatal disease, must hastily choose a successor to run his record label upon his death. US District Judge Joel Slomsky dismissed the case in April 2017, stating that the plots of both shows were dissimilar enough to rule out any possible copyright infringement. In his words, "...both Mozart and Metallica composed in E minor."  Prince went on to make Cream as a four part miniseries in 2017.  Music After finding his lead actors, Lee Daniels set out to find a producer to craft the music for the series. Because he felt his own musical tastes and desires would be a little too dated for the show, Daniels consulted with people he thought could give him a little more insight, his children. At the urging of his son and daughter, Daniels contacted super producer Timothy "Timbaland" Mosley, known for scoring hits with some of pop and R&B's biggest artists including Missy Elliott, Madonna, Brandy, Destiny's Child, Justin Timberlake, Jay-Z, Nelly Furtado, Ginuwine, and Aaliyah. As executive music Producer, Timbaland, co-songwriter/producer Jim Beanz, and a team of other musical collaborators took their cues from the writing team, which gave them an idea of where the plot is headed, and craft songs to fit those themes. However, the musical aspect of the series is very reality-based, unlike Fox's last musical series, Glee, performances come with the organic development of the characters as artists, much like the performances featured in the ABC prime-time country musical drama Nashville. Any licensed songs and composer Fil Eisler's score are added after the episodes are filmed. The pilot itself consists of 12 songs. Columbia Records releases weekly soundtracks of Empire on the iTunes Store, the same strategy used with Glee. In May 2015, Fox announced that Ne-Yo and J.R. Rotem would write music for the show's second season, joining Timbaland. Timbaland left Empire after season 2, and were replaced for season 3 by Rodney "Darkchild" Jerkins and Esther Dean. On September 8, 2015, Scott Hoying and Mitch Grassi from Pentatonix arranged a medley of songs from the first season of Empire and posted it on their shared YouTube comedy/music channel, Superfruit. The video was sponsored by the Fox Broadcasting Company.  Soundtracks Columbia Records released the official soundtrack of Empire's first season on March 10, 2015. The soundtrack consists of 11 songs and the deluxe version consists of 18 songs, all performed on the show. As of October 2015, the album has sold 439,000 total copies in the United States. Additional releases have followed for subsequent seasons. For season 6, four songs from the premiere episode were released in advance of the season, and two new songs will be released each week ahead of each new episode.  Broadcast Empire was set to premiere in Australia on February 19, 2015, on Network Ten; however, a week out from this date it was dumped from the schedule and pushed back. It ultimately premiered on March 1, 2015, to a disappointing 377,000 total viewers, although it fared better with viewers in younger demographics. The second season was broadcast on Eleven from September 29, 2015. In Canada, the series was simulcast on Omni Television (Omni 2). The fourth episode and the season finale would also air on City, a sibling broadcast network. Sibling cable network FX Canada would also air a marathon of the show on March 14 and 15, 2015. The show moved to City starting in the 2015–16 season, but was dropped from their lineup after the first half of the second season due to low ratings; Fox affiliates are widely available on pay television as well as over-the-air in some areas. Shomi, a subscription streaming service co-owned by City's parent company Rogers Communications, began to add new episodes following their U.S. premiere on Fox. A representative of the service stated that Empire was among its ten most popular programs. Empire started broadcasting in the United Kingdom on E4 with the first episode airing on April 28, 2015. 5Star have since taken over the rights as of Season 4. The series premiered in India on STAR World Premiere HD on April 24, 2015 (only in high-definition). Later, on July 14, 2015, Empire also premiered on FX India (both in standard and high definition) with the Season 1 finale airing on July 29, 2015. Empire premiered on June 24, 2015, in Germany on Pro Sieben, with the Pilot reaching 930,000 viewers. In Finland, the show premiered on Sub on December 2, 2015. In South Africa, the show premiered on e.tv on February 3, 2016. In Serbia, the series premiered on Fox, on January 23, 2016. In the United States, TV One has the exclusive cable rerun rights.  Reception In 2016, a study by The New York Times of the 50 TV shows with the most Facebook Likes found that Empire "is most popular in the Black Belt and in parts of the country with a high percentage of Native Americans".  Ratings Note: The eleventh episode of the first season aired outside of its regular timeslot at Wednesday 8 pm.  Critical response Empire has received positive reviews, with praise for the cast, particularly Howard and Henson. On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has a rating of 84%, based on 49 reviews, with an average rating of 7.24/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Though heavy on melodrama, Empire elevates the nighttime soap with its top-notch cast, musical entertainment, and engrossing plots." On Metacritic the show has a score of 72 out of 100, based on 39 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". For the second season, the score rose a few points higher, further praising the performances of Henson and Howard, the character development, plot development, and the show's self-awareness for being a soap opera. On Rotten Tomatoes, the second season has an 87% with an average rating of 7.54/10 from critics and a score of 77 from Metacritic. David Wiegand wrote in the San Francisco Chronicle: "Almost nothing about Empire, created by Lee Daniels (The Butler), feels original, but after a few minutes, you will stop caring". 50 Cent stated via Twitter that he feels that Empire is being marketed by FOX in a way that resembles the marketing for the 2014 Starz series that he produces called Power. Michael Logan of TV Guide described Empire as a "sudsy retooling of King Lear with hip hop as the backdrop" and praised Henson for her portrayal of the character Cookie. The show's premiere ranked as Fox's highest-rated debut in three years. Empire was the first primetime broadcast series in at least 23 years to have its viewership increase week to week for its first five episodes. The show continued to increase its viewership with further episodes. Episodes of the show have also been heavily watched on Video on Demand and other streaming services. Empire surpassed The Big Bang Theory as the highest rated scripted program in the 2014–2015 television season. The first-season finale was also the highest rated debut season finale since May 2005, when Grey's Anatomy ended its first season. Empire's season one finale grew 82 percent from its series premiere, making it the show that has grown the most over the course of its first season since Men in Trees during the 2006–2007 season.  Awards and nominations See also "The Great Phatsby" – a parody of the show on fellow Fox program The Simpsons.  References Further reading Koblin, John (March 18, 2015). "'Empire', the Meteor That Never Fell to Earth". The New York Times. "FAQ for 'Empire' (2015)". IMDb.  External links Official website Official "Empire Enterprises" website, run by FOX Archived June 27, 2015, at the Wayback Machine Empire at IMDb  Empire at Metacritic  Empire at Rotten Tomatoes Empire at epguides.com Empire at The Futon Critic Empire at TV Guide

Michael Anthony Timlin (born 19 March 1985) is a professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for National League South club Dulwich Hamlet. Born in Lambeth, England, Timlin graduated through the Fulham Academy, making his debut in a League Cup game in 2004. During this time he spent time on loan at Scunthorpe United, Doncaster Rovers and Swindon Town before joining Swindon permanently in 2008. In 2010, he moved to Southend United on loan, reuniting him with former Southend manager Paul Sturrock again having previously played under him at Swindon. In January 2012, Timlin made a permanent transfer to Southend United, after his second loan spell with them had ended. He helped the club to secure promotion out of League Two in 2014–15.  The midfielder signed for Stevenage in June 2018 and played an integral part during their 2018/2019 season.  Timlin was out of contract the following summer and, for personal reasons, decided not to agree to an extension. Subsequently, Timlin re-signed for the club in September 2019 on a short-term contract playing under a different manager to his previous spell. In January 2020, Timlin signed for Ebbsfleet United however due to a transfer embargo in place on the club at the time, he was unable to make his debut until mid-February. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the National League season was curtailed in April with Timlin having made just 4 league appearances. In August 2020 it was announced the midfielder had joined Dulwich Hamlet in a role combining playing for the first team and coaching in the academy. Timlin has played internationally for the Republic of Ireland eight times at under-21 level.  Club career Fulham Timlin joined the Fulham Academy at a young age and, with first team appearances being limited, he spent loan spells at Scunthorpe United, Doncaster Rovers and Swindon Town. After making his debut in a League Cup match against Boston United in 2004, Timlin only played a few competitive games (four in total).  At the end of the 2007/2008 season Timlin agreed a permanent move to Swindon Town. That debut season was otherwise one of frustration, as injuries to the back and metatarsal ruled the Irishman out for long periods. Having initially played as a winger while at the Fulham Academy, he has now matured into a central midfielder. Timlin also captained the Ireland U-21s to victory in the 2006 Madeira Cup.  Swindon Town In November 2006, he joined League Two promotion chasers Swindon Town. He made his debut for Swindon against Bury on 25 November. He scored his first goal for Swindon at home to Notts County, which earned them a point. Timlin's performances saw Paul Sturrock attempt to extend the loan deal. Chris Coleman agreed to the extension on the terms that Timlin extended his full contract with Fulham. On 13 March 2008, Timlin rejoined Swindon on loan for the remainder of the season, making 10 appearances. On 3 May, hours after the conclusion of the 2007–08 League One season, it was announced that he had joined Swindon on a permanent two-year deal. He officially joined his new club on 1 July 2008. Ahead of the 2008–09 season, Timlin was given the number 4 shirt. Timlin began the 2008/2009 season in his preferred central midfield role. However, Maurice Malpas took Timlin out for the visit of Leeds United, and on his return to the squad a week later, he appeared on the left side of midfield. Towards the end of October, when Malpas' defensive-minded approach hadn't appeared to work, Timlin was moved to yet another new position on the left side of the defence to fill the gap of injured Jamie Vincent. Adapting well, Timlin also stood in as captain in the absence of Hasney Aljofree. Maurice Malpas was sacked in November, and Timlin moved back to central midfield under caretaker manager David Byrne. As Danny Wilson took charge, Timlin was playing at left side of defence again, but after Wilson's first game in charge, Timlin was moved to the left side of midfield and then back to central midfield. Timlin was ever-present in the centre of midfield for the remainder of the season, only missing two games through suspension. The 2009–10 season was frustrating for Timlin as he spent most of the season on the bench, during which time the club was making their attempt to reach the Championship, losing out to Millwall in the Playoff Final at Wembley. Despite a lack of first opportunities, Timlin signed a new one-year deal after being offered a new contract. At the start of the 2010–11 season, Timlin appeared on the bench for a number of games before joining Southend United on loan. Upon his return from a loan spell with Southend United, Timlin made his first appearance since September, when Swindon Town played Brentford in the quarter final of Southern Section. Timlin signed a two-year contract extension with Swindon on 23 June 2011. stating that he had never considered leaving the Robins despite recurring interest from Southend United. Ahead of the 2011–12 season, Timlin praised newly manager Paolo Di Canio for his influence. Despite signing the contract extension, Timlin re-joined Southend on loan again at the end of August 2011 which resulted in a permanent switch in January 2012.  Southend United On 15 September 2010, Timlin joined League Two side Southend United on a one-month loan. Timlin made his debut on 25 September 2010, scoring his first goal from a 30-yard free-kick in a 3–1 win over Hereford United. Timlin made an impressive performance for Southend United and expressed an interest to extend his loan spell. Swindon Town initially agreed but later changed their mind and recalled him back to the club. On 31 August 2011, Timlin re-joined Southend United on loan for a second spell, this time on a 4-month contract. His last match on loan to Southend was on Monday 2 January 2012 against Dagenham and Redbridge. In the evening of Thursday 5 January, three days after his loan spell came to an end, it was confirmed that he would be moving to Southend United permanently for an 'undisclosed fee' On 5 February 2013, in a match against Leyton Orient, Timlin suffered a broken leg and was out of action for 8–9 months. He then missed the second leg of that game, the JPT Area Final, and the subsequent Wembley final. It was hoped that he would be back for the start of the next season 2013–14. Despite the injury, Timlin was offered, and signed, a new 2-year contract. He made his return from injury after appearing on the bench for three matches, when he came on as a substitute in the 83rd minute, in a 2–1 loss against Chesterfield on 24 August 2013. At the end of the 2014–15 season he played for Southend in the League Two play-off final against Wycombe Wanderers. Southend won in a penalty shoot-out and were promoted to League One. On 2 July 2015 Timlin signed a new 2-year contract at Southend and then a further year extension which saw him contracted until May 2018. At the end of the 2017/2018 season, Timlin held positive talks about a contract extension at Southend United but a change in circumstances at the club unfortunately resulted in him being released much to his disappointment and that of the clubs supporters with whom he was a fans favourite. Timlin went on to sign for Stevenage in June 2018.  Stevenage Timlin signed for League Two club Stevenage on a free transfer on 11 June 2018. He made his Stevenage debut in the club's opening game of the 2018–19 season, playing the first 64 minutes in a 2–2 draw against Tranmere Rovers at Broadhall Way. Timlin scored his first goal for the club, which turned out to be his only goal for the club, in Stevenage's 1–0 victory over Morecambe on 18 August 2018. He played regularly throughout the season in the centre of midfield, making 46 appearances in all competitions. Timlin was released by Stevenage at the end of the season. Timlin re-joined Stevenage on 20 September 2019 on a short-term contract. The club stated Timlin had previously chosen not to agree a new contract in the summer for personal reasons. Stevenage confirmed in January 2020 that Timlin had left the club having been unable to agree terms on a new contract.  Ebbsfleet United On 21 January 2020, Timlin signed for Ebbsfleet United however due to a transfer embargo in place on the club at the time, he was unable to make his debut until mid-February. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the National League season was suspended and subsequently curtailed in April with Timlin having made just 4 league appearances.  Whilst positive talks were held about Timlin remaining at Ebbsfleet, he explained during the summer that he had received an offer he just could not turn down which meant he would not be extending his time at the club.  He said that had it not been for this specific offer, he would definitely have loved to remain at Ebbsfleet and finish his playing career with them.  Dulwich Hamlet After a brief spell playing at Ebbsfleet United, cut short by the COVID-19 pandemic, Timlin agreed to sign for Dulwich Hamlet in August 2020 in a role that would allow him to continue playing and also continue his coaching ambitions working within their Academy. Timlin is keen to pass on his experience to the next generation of players and is working towards becoming a UEFA licensed coach.  The midfielder explained, when signing for the club, that the opportunity to play for the team in the area he grew up in and work under good friends and mentors Gavin Rose and Junior Kadi, was just too good a chance to turn down.  Personal life On 5 June 2013, Timlin was sentenced to an 84-day prison sentence for perverting the course of justice in regards to traffic offences, although he was told he would only serve half. He was also given an £80 fine and four points on his driving license. On 17 July, Timlin was released from prison having served his 42 days. He linked up with the Southend squad to continue his rehabilitation on his broken leg and opened talks with manager Phil Brown about a new contract  Career statistics As of match played 2 May 2022  Honours Southend United  League Two play-offs: 2014–15  References External links  Michael Timlin at Soccerbase

Hiram Parks Bell (January 19, 1827 – August 16, 1907) was a white supremacist, slave owner, U.S. Representative and a Confederate Representative from the state of Georgia.  Early life and education Bell was born January 19, 1827, near Jefferson, Georgia. He taught school for two years, studied law, was admitted to the Georgia bar later in 1849 and became a practicing lawyer in Cumming, Georgia. According to his autobiographical memoirs, "Men and Things," he owned at least two slaves.  Secession and war Bell was a member of the Georgia secession convention, voting against secession as imprudent, but then signing the Ordinance of Secession. He believed that "the Northern States were astonished that the Southern States would secede; the Southern people were surprised that the government would attempt to hold the States together by force." Hearing that Georgia must "grasp in fraternity the bloody hand of Massachusetts, or align yourselves with gallant South Carolina" shook his views on the need to secede. He served as a Georgia commissioner to work with the state of Tennessee in the formation of a southern confederacy.  American Civil War In 1861, Bell served in the Georgia Senate; however, he resigned to join the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War as a captain. He was later promoted to lieutenant colonel and then colonel of the 43rd Georgia Infantry Regiment. Bell was a Georgia representative to the Second Confederate Congress in 1864 and 1865.  Post-war politics After the war, Bell opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1866 as "legislative folly… intended to harass and humiliate the white people. He was a member of the Democratic State executive committee from 1868 to 1871. Elected as a Democratic Representative to the 43rd United States Congress representing Georgia's 9th congressional district, Bell served from March 4, 1873, until March 3, 1875. He served as a delegate to the 1876 Democratic National Convention and was chosen an at-large member from Georgia to Democratic National Committee. Bell was elected to the U.S. Congress again to represent the 10th district of Georgia during the 45th Congress to fill the vacant seat resulting from the resignation of Benjamin Harvey Hill and served from March 13, 1877, to March 3, 1879. Bell lost his bid for reelection to that in 1878. He then served in the Georgia House of Representatives in 1898 and 1899 and the Georgia Senate in 1900 and 1901. In his memoirs, Bell praised the Ku Klux Klan as "a saving factor in the preservation of order and the prevention of lawlessness" for opposing Reconstruction.  He also described himself as one of the "able and patriotic" white Georgian men who "established a Constitution that secured white over black domination."  Death Bell died in Atlanta, Georgia, on August 16, 1907, and was buried in the Cumming Cemetery.  Legacy Bell Street in Atlanta is possibly named for him. In June, 2020, residents of Cumming, Georgia called for the removal of his statue from the town square.  References References United States Congress. "Hiram Parks Bell (id: B000336)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Retrieved on 2008-02-13  External links Hiram Parks Bell at Find a Grave

David Haye vs. Audley Harrison, billed as Best of Enemies, was a professional boxing match contested on 13 November 2010, for the WBA Heavyweight championship.  Background After his stoppage win over former champion John Ruiz in his first defence, WBA champion David Haye entered into negotiations with the Klitschko brothers with Wembley Stadium and Stamford Bridge being mentioned possible venues. This talks however were unsuccessful as the brothers agreed to face former champions Shannon Briggs and Samuel Peter instead. This left the main options for Haye as, European champion (and former amateur teammate) Audley Harrison and former 2 division champion Tomasz Adamek. Ultimately Haye came to an agreement with Harrison to meet in November. The build up to bout was marked by a great amount of trashtalk from both fighters, including Haye saying "Fortunately, there are enough people in Britain who want to see him get destroyed, completely annihilated. That's why this fight is happening. They want me to close the curtain on the joke that is the Audley Harrison show." While Harrison said "When I came out of the Olympics they called me Muhammad Ali, then four years later I'm 'Fraudley'. But after this fight I'll be extraordinary.". It was expected that Haye' superior speed, coupled with his uppercut would give him the edge over the slower and innately more cautious Harrison. This was only third time in history that two brits had faced each other for the heavyweight title, and first on UK soil since Lennox Lewis vs. Frank Bruno in 1993.  The fight Harrison entered the ring to a chorus of boos, prompting BBC Radio 5 Live co-commentator Steve Bunce to comment that "Audley looks troubled, he looks nervous and he looks tormented". The first round was extremely tentative with neither fighter landing any punches. The second round started in the same vain before the referee briefly halted the action to encourage the pair to engage, prompting cheers from the crowd. Haye begin throwing more through the rest of the round, but nothing seemed to trouble the challenger. Haye came out firing at the start of the third and he hurt Harrison with a big right hand. Haye followed up with a pair of left-right combinations that sent Harrison down. He beat the count but Haye immediately launched a barrage of unanswered punching with Harrison against the ropes, prompting the referee to wave it off giving Haye a third-round TKO victory. According to punchstats Harrison only landed 2 of the 28 punches (both jabs) he threw although the whole bout.  Aftermath Harrison's performance was widely criticised by both boxing experts and fans, leading to the British Boxing Board of Control withholding some of his purse while a full investigation of the bout was carried out. After the investigation into the fight was concluded, Harrison would be granted his full purse on 11 January 2011. Haye would again call out the Klitschko brothers, with his trainer Adam Booth saying to BBC Radio 5 Live "They (the Klitschkos) want a defining fight and David wants a defining fight. David will be retiring in October next year so they haven't got a lot of time to speak sense. He'll take out Wladimir before summer and take care of Vitali after the summer." Haye would face criticism for suggesting that he bet on himself to win in the third round saying in a post fight interview "I put a lot of money on the third round and a lot of my friends and family did. I didn't want to let them down by doing him too early. Ask around - I told everyone I'd knock him out in three rounds. That's exactly what I did. No way was he going into that fourth round." He would later clarify that he didn't bet any money personally, which was accepted by the BBBC.  Undercard Confirmed bouts:  Broadcasting   == References ==

Cypripedium is a genus of 58 species and nothospecies of hardy orchids; it is one of five genera that together compose the subfamily of lady's slipper orchids (Cypripedioideae). They are widespread across much of the Northern Hemisphere, including most of Europe and Africa (Algeria) (one species), Russia, China, Central Asia, Canada the United States, Mexico, and Central America. They are most commonly known as slipper orchids, lady's slipper orchids, or ladyslippers; other common names include moccasin flower, camel's foot, squirrel foot, steeple cap, Venus' shoes, and whippoorwill shoe.  An abbreviation used in trade journals is "Cyp."  The genus name is derived from Ancient Greek Κύπρις (Kúpris), an early reference in Greek myth to Aphrodite, and πέδιλον (pédilon), meaning "sandal". Most of Cypripedium grow in temperate and subtropical climates, but some species grow in the tundra in Alaska and Siberia, which is an unusually cold habitat for orchids.  Other species occur well into tropical areas such as Honduras and Myanmar. Some of the northern species can withstand extreme cold, growing under the snow and blooming when the snow melts. But, in the wild, some have become rare and close to extinction, due to an ever shrinking natural habitat and over-collection, people prizing the flowers for their beauty. Several species are legally protected in some regions. In the late 20th century, only a single known plant of Cypripedium calceolus survived in Britain.  Characteristics The Cypripedium are terrestrial and, as with most terrestrial orchids, the rhizome is short and robust, growing in the uppermost soil layer. The rhizome grows annually with a growth bud at one end and dies off at the other end. The stem grows from the bud at the tip of the rhizome. Most slipper orchids have an elongate erect stem, with leaves growing along its length. But the mocassin flower or pink lady's slipper (Cypripedium acaule) has a short underground stem with leaves springing from the soil. The often hairy leaves can vary from ovate to elliptic or lanceolate, folded (plicate) along their length. The stems lack pseudobulbs. The inflorescence is racemose. It can carry one to twelve flowers, as in Cypripedium californicum. But most species have one to three flowers. There are three sepals, with, in most species, the two lateral ones more or less fused. The flower has three acute petals with the third a striking slipper-shaped lip, which is lowermost. The sepals and the petals are usually similarly colored, with the lip in a different color. But variations on this theme occur. The aspect of the lip of different species can vary a great deal. As with all orchids, it is specially constructed to attract pollinators, which it traps temporarily. The flowers show a column with a unique shield-like staminode.  The ovary is 3-locular (with three chambers).  Taxonomy Comparison between a DNA-analysis and the morphological characteristics in this genus has shown that there is a high degree of divergence between the two, probably due to long periods of isolation or extinction of intermediate forms. The Eurasian species with yellow or red flowers form a distinct group from the North American species with yellow flowers. The Mexican Pelican Orchid (Cypripedium irapeanum) and the California lady's slipper (Cypripedium californicum) are probably the first diverging line. They share several similarities with their sister group Selenipedium.  Species and natural hybrids There are 58 currently recognized species and nothospecies (naturally occurring hybrids) recognized in this genus, as of May 2014:  Subgenus Cypripedium Subgenus Irapeana Natural Hybrids Uses The genus has a long history of use, dating back 2,500 years to the Far East, where they were used medicinally.  Conservation Several orchid species thought to be extinct in the United Kingdom including one native species in this genus have been found in habitat and are currently the subject of aggressive conservation efforts to protect and restore these showy plants to their native ranges.  Awards The following have received the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit:-  Cypripedium formosanum Cypripedium Hank Small gx Cypripedium Michael gx Cypripedium reginae Cypripedium Sabine gx  References Phillip Cribb & Peter Green (1997). The Genus Cypripedium (a botanical monograph). Kew Royal Botanic Gardens, Timber Press ISBN 0-88192-403-2 Pridgeon, A.M.; Cribb, P.J.; Chase, M.W. & F. N. Rasmussen (1999): Genera Orchidacearum Vol.1, page: 114 ff., Oxford U. Press. ISBN 0-19-850513-2  External links  Media related to Cypripedium at Wikimedia Commons  Data related to Cypripedium at Wikispecies Cypripedium - Infos by Mr. Frosch Photos of Chinese Slipper Orchids Cypripedium japonicum Cypripedium macranthum var. hotei-atsumorianum Images of Japanese Cypripedium Cypripedium picture database

Ford Theatre, spelled Ford Theater for the original radio version and known, in full, as The Ford Television Theatre for the TV version, is a radio and television anthology series broadcast in the United States in the 1940s and 1950s. At various times the television series appeared on all three major television networks, while the radio version was broadcast on two separate networks and on two separate coasts. Ford Theatre was named for its sponsor, the Ford Motor Company, which had an earlier success with its concert music series, The Ford Sunday Evening Hour (1934–42).  Radio Ford Theater as a radio series lasted for only two seasons. Its first season was broadcast from New York City on NBC with such actors as Ed Begley, Shirley Booth, Gary Merrill, Everett Sloane and Vicki Vola. This season ran from October 5, 1947, to June 27, 1948. Due to poor ratings, Ford moved the show to Hollywood and CBS Radio for the second season, where top Hollywood actors headed the casts. This season, which lasted from October 8, 1948, to July 1, 1949, received much higher ratings. However, with television rising in popularity, Ford decided to end its radio show and focus solely on television. Howard Lindsay became the program's master of ceremonies on October 5, 1947.  Television The first Ford Theatre on U.S. television appeared on October 17, 1948, near the beginning of regularly scheduled prime time network programming. It was an hour-long drama, broadcast live, as was most television of the era.  This series used primarily Broadway actors. The program began as a monthly series, switching to biweekly a year later, in alternation on Friday nights at 9:00 pm Eastern time with the 54th Street Revue. During this period, programming included adaptations of Little Women, with June Lockhart and Kim Hunter, and One Sunday Afternoon, with Burgess Meredith and Hume Cronyn. During the following season, the final season for the program on CBS, the alternation in the same time slot was with Magnavox Theater. Garth Montgomery was the producer, with Carl Beier as associate producer. Franklin Schaffner was the director. A half-hour filmed Ford Theatre returned to the airwaves on NBC for the 1951–52 season on Thursday nights at 9:30 pm Eastern. At this time, production was moved from New York to Hollywood, and featured actors based there rather than on Broadway. Some of these programs were comedies instead of dramas. Performers appearing during this era included Frank Bank, Scott Brady, Claudette Colbert, Charles Coburn, Ed Hinton, Vivi Janiss, Peter Lawford, Sam Levene, Ida Lupino, Thomas Mitchell, Dennis Morgan, Karen Sharpe, Ann Sheridan, Barry Sullivan, and Beverly Washburn.  Also appearing for the first time together were Ronald Reagan and Nancy Davis, in an episode entitled "First Born," which first aired on February 3, 1953. In October 1954, Ford Theatre became the first network television series to be filmed regularly in color. During this period, Ford Theatre finished in the Nielsen ratings at number 30 for the 1952–1953 season, number seven in 1953–1954, number 9 in 1954–1955, and number 13 in 1955–1956. After four seasons on NBC, the program was shown for a final season on ABC during the 1956–57 season. The time slot was changed to Wednesdays at 9:30 pm. The last prime time broadcast of Ford Theatre was on July 10, 1957. From 9:00 to 9:30 p.m. on Saturdays during the summer of 1958, NBC broadcast the anthology series Opening Night, which consisted entirely of reruns of episodes of Ford Theatre from the 1956–1957 season. First aired on June 14, 1958, Opening Night was broadcast every other week, alternating in its time slot with Club Oasis with Spike Jones. Its final episode aired on September 8, 1958. In 1954, Billboard voted Ford Theatre the best filmed network television drama series.  Episodes Season 1 (1948–49) Season 2 (1949–50) Season 3 (1950–51) Season 4 (1952–53) Season 5 (1953–54) Season 6 (1954–55) Season 7 (1955–56) Season 8 (1956–57) See also References Further reading Brooks, Tim and Marsh, Earle, The Complete Directory to Prime Time Network and Cable TV Shows 1946–Present Audio Classics Archive Radio Logs: The Ford Theater  External links Radio  Ford Theatre at the Digital Deli Too Ford Theater at Jerry Haendiges Vintage Radio Logs Ford Theater in the Internet Archive's Old-Time Radio Collection Television  Ford Theatre at CVTA The Ford Theatre Hour at IMDb  The Ford Television Theatre at IMDb  Ford Theatre episodes at the Internet Archive

The 2020–21 season was Stoke City's 104th season in the Football League, the 44th in the second tier and seventh in the Championship. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic the 2020–21 season began later in September with matches continuing to played behind closed doors. Stoke began the season in good form, winning eight of their first 16 matches and were just outside the play-off places at the beginning of December. However a number of injuries to key players most notably to Tyrese Campbell saw goals dry up and the team went nine games without a win at the turn of the year. Stoke were unable to put a sustained run of results together in March and April and ended the season in mid-table.  Pre-season Stoke announced their retained list in July 2020, leaving the club were goalkeeper Adam Federici from the first team, and Jake Dunwoody, James Jennings, Ash Kigbu, Cameron McJannet, Tre Pemberton, Abdul Sankoh, Ollie Shenton and Scott Wara from the under-23 squad. Also leaving were the two players who agreed to temporary contract extensions to cover the final nine games of the 2019–20 season, Mame Biram Diouf and Stephen Ward. O'Neill made his first signing of the summer bringing in former Sheffield Wednesday left-back Morgan Fox. Centre-back James Chester re-joined the club having spent the second half of last season on loan from Aston Villa. Stoke brought in former Sheffield Wednesday striker Steven Fletcher on 14 August. Former Chelsea midfielder John Obi Mikel joined the club on 17 August 2020 having left Trabzonspor in March. On 9 September Stoke brought in winger Jacob Brown from Barnsley. The squad returned to Clayton Wood on 7 August and the following week travelled to Belfast for a training camp and a behind closed doors friendly against NIFL Premiership champions Linfield at Windsor Park. Stoke won 1–0 with a first half strike from Josh Tymon. They then played two matches against League One sides, losing 1–0 to Burton Albion and beating Shrewsbury Town 5–1. Stoke ended their pre-season schedule with back-to-back wins over Premier League sides Leeds United and Newcastle United.  Championship Because the 2019–20 season was extended into the summer of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the 2020–21 season started at a later date of 12 September 2020 with matches continuing to be played behind-closed doors. The summer transfer window was open from 27 July to 16 October.  September For the season opener away at Millwall, Michael O'Neill started new signings Morgan Fox and John Obi Mikel. The match was a cagey affair with few chances and it unsurprisingly ended in a goalless draw. Stoke produced a poor performance in the first home game of the campaign against Bristol City, with the Robins winning 2–0 with goals from Nahki Wells and Andreas Weimann. Stoke earned their first victory of the campaign away at Preston North End on 26 September. Preston started the match the better team but the match turned in Stoke's favor after Tom Barkhuizen was sent-off in the 22nd minute for a tackle on Morgan Fox. Stoke went on to win 1–0 with a close range finish from Lee Gregory.  October Stoke faced Birmingham City in the first match in October and despite having the better possession and chances they were frustrated by a well disciplined Birmingham side and they took the lead through a Harlee Dean header. O'Neill brought on Powell from the bench and he scored in the 86th minute to help Stoke earn a 1–1 draw. Following the international break, Stoke travelled to Luton Town where former manager Nathan Jones had returned to. After an uneventful first half Stoke scored twice early in the second through Fletcher and Powell to see out a 2–0 victory. Four days later they took on Barnsley and poor defending cost them in the first half as Elliot Simões gave the Tykes the lead before Campbell equalised just before half time only for Dominik Frieser to score in stoppage time. A mistake from Jack Walton just after half time allowed Tommy Smith to score his first goal for the club. Nathan Collins was sent-off for an off the ball incident with Frieser and Stoke were able to see out a 2–2 draw. Collins' red card was later rescinded by the FA. Stoke put in a fine performance against promotion favorites Brentford and were 3–0 up after goals from Campbell, Fletcher and McClean before a late brace from Marcus Forss ensured a nervy finish but Stoke were able to gain a 3–2 win. City then produced an abject performance away at Swansea City where they lost 2–0 without having a shot on target. Stoke ended October with a 1–0 win against Rotherham United with a long kick from Angus Gunn being lobbed into the Millers net by McClean.  November Stoke were then controversially beaten 3–2 by Watford at Vicarage Road. Fletcher had given Stoke an early lead before Tom Cleverley leveled for Watford despite clearly barging into Angus Gunn. A João Pedro penalty put Watford in front with Stoke responding through Powell. Ismaïla Sarr won the match late on for the Hornets despite a handball in the build up. Stoke beat early league leaders Reading 3–0 with goals from Campbell, Fletcher and Brown to earn a first league victory at the Madjeski Stadium. Stoke suffered an injury problem after both senior goalkeepers, Adam Davies and Angus Gunn were ruled out for up to two months with Josef Bursik being recalled from his loan at Doncaster Rovers. Bursik started two days later against Carlos Corberán's Huddersfield Town who took the lead through Carel Eiting. Two quick goals from Campbell put Stoke in front before Isaac Mbenza levelled for the Terriers. An own goal from Richard Stearman ensured Stoke went into half time with a 3–2 lead which was extended by Sam Clucas early in the second half. Naby Sarr pulled another goal back for Huddersfield but Stoke held out for a 4–3 victory. Stoke struggled against leaders Norwich City and were 3–0 down early in the second half after goals from Emiliano Buendía and a brace from Teemu Pukki. Buendía was then sent-off which sparked a comeback from Stoke with Campbell and Collins scoring but Norwich held on to win 3–2. November ended with a drab goalless draw at Tony Pulis' Sheffield Wednesday.  December Stoke's goalkeeping injury crisis worsened prior to the match against Wycombe Wanderers after Niki Mäenpää who was signed on a temporary deal to provide cover for Bursik, also suffered an injury in training meaning that Andy Lonergan was brought in on a similar contract. 1,000 Wycombe fans were allowed to attend the match following the end of the second lockdown in England and they saw Nick Powell score the only goal of the game after 72 minutes. Stoke moved into a play-off position for the first time this season with a 1–0 win over Middlesbrough thanks to a first half header from Nathan Collins. They then missed the chance to move into an automatic place as Cardiff City came from behind to win 2–1. A depleted Stoke team played out a goalless draw at Derby County on 12 December. Stoke suffered another long-term injury after it was confirmed that Campbell would miss the rest of the season. Three days later they played out another goalless draw this time away at Queens Park Rangers. They then ground out a 1–0 win over Blackburn Rovers with Powell scoring an early diving header. On Boxing day against Coventry City, City played out a third consecutive goalless away draw. Stoke ended 2020 with a 1–1 draw against Nottingham Forest in foggy conditions.  January Stoke began 2021 with a narrow defeat against promotion chasing AFC Bournemouth. For the trip to Blackburn Rovers, O'Neil gave first starts to new signings Rabbi Matondo and Rhys Norrington-Davies in what was Stoke's youngest starting eleven for 15 years with an average age of 25. Powell gave Stoke a first half lead before Blackburn equalised through John Buckley. James Chester was then sent-off after bringing down Adam Armstrong who was through on goal and Stoke held on for a 1–1 draw. The side then drew 3–3 at relegation threatened Rotherham United with O'Neill critical of his teams defending. Stoke ended January without a win after defeat against Watford and a draw away at Huddersfield Town where Rhys Norrington-Davies was sent-off just before half time. In the January transfer window, O'Neill trimmed his squad by loaning out Moritz Bauer, Lee Gregory, Tom Ince, Liam Lindsay and Kevin Wimmer whilst Thibaud Verlinden left on a permanent basis. Coming in were Alfie Doughty from Charlton Athletic and three loans Jack Clarke, Rabbi Matondo and Rhys Norrington-Davies.  February Stoke's barren run of form continued into February with a goalless draw against Reading and a heavy defeat at Norwich. Stoke ended their nine-game winless run with a 1–0 win against Sheffield Wednesday with Steven Fletcher scoring against his former club. On 19 February 2021, club captain Ryan Shawcross left Stoke by mutual consent after 14 years ahead of a move to Inter Miami CF in the United States. City coasted to a 3–0 win against Luton Town with Powell scoring twice to complete a league double over the Hatters. The team then put in an inept performance away at Barnsley, losing 2–0. Stoke ended February with a first visit to the Brentford Community Stadium where they lost 2–1 despite taking the lead in the first minute.  March Stoke lost a third game in a row after a 2–1 defeat against Swansea. Powell gave City an early lead but goals from Connor Roberts and a controversial late penalty from André Ayew earned Swansea the win. Three days later they ended their losing run with a 2–0 home win over rock bottom Wycombe Wanderers, with Rhys Norrington-Davies and Harry Souttar scoring their first goals for the club. They were then easily beaten 3–0 by Middlesbrough. Stoke played out a goalless draw with Cardiff City with under-23s striker Christian Norton making his league debut. A goal from Jacob Brown gave Stoke a 1–0 win against Derby County in the final match of March to move the team past the 50 point mark.  April Over the Easter weekend Stoke had mixed fortunes as they beat Bristol City 2–0 at Ashton Gate on Good Friday but then lost 2–1 to Millwall on Easter Monday. The following week the team lost again, this time 2–0 to relegation threatened Birmingham City. Following the Birmingham game assistant manager Billy McKinlay left the club and was replaced by the former Bristol City manager Dean Holden. Stoke played out a drab goalless draw with Preston North End on 17 April with Harry Souttar being sent-off late on after bringing down Alan Browne. Stoke lost 3–2 to Coventry City, with O'Neil highly critical of his team's performance. Stoke drew 1–1 at Nottingham Forest with Rabbi Matondo first goal for the club being cancelled out by Lewis Grabban.  May Stoke lost their penultimate game of the season 2–0 to Queens Park Rangers. Stoke ended the 2020–21 season with a 2–0 win against AFC Bournemouth with academy graduate Will Forrester scoring on his debut.  Results League table FA Cup Stoke were drawn against Leicester City in the FA Cup and were well beaten 4–0 making it five consecutive third round exits.  EFL Cup In the first round of the EFL Cup Stoke beat EFL League One side Blackpool 5–4 on penalties after a goalless ninety minutes. On September 17 2020, Stoke went on to beat Wolverhampton Wanderers in the second round, after a late winner from Jacob Brown. In the Third Round, Stoke edged past League One side Gillingham 1–0 with a goal from Tyrese Campbell in the 37th minute. City again won 1–0 in the fourth round away at Aston Villa with a first half header from Sam Vokes. Stoke faced a strong Tottenham Hotspur side in the quarter-final. Spurs won 3–1 with goals from Gareth Bale, Ben Davies and Harry Kane whilst Jordan Thompson scored his first goal for Stoke.  Squad statistics Transfers In Out Loans in Loans out   == References ==

Peter S. Hersh is an American ophthalmologist, researcher, and specialist in LASIK eye surgery, keratoconus, and diseases of the cornea. He co-authored the article in the journal Ophthalmology that presented the results of the study that led to the first approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the excimer laser for the correction of nearsightedness in the United States.  Hersh was also medical monitor of the study that led to approval of corneal collagen crosslinking for the treatment of keratoconus. He was the originator, in 2015, of CTAK (corneal tissue addition keratoplasty) for keratoconus, patent holder, and co-developer.  Life and career Hersh grew up in Maplewood, New Jersey and graduated from Columbia High School. Hersh graduated from Princeton University with an A.B. in biochemistry, where he was awarded the Senior Thesis prize for his work on messenger RNA.  He received his medical degree (M.D.) from Johns Hopkins University and completed his residency training at Harvard Medical School where he was Chief Resident. He also completed a Fellowship in Cornea and External Disease at Harvard. Afterwards, Hersh remained on the full-time faculty at Harvard. In 1995 he founded the Cornea and Laser Eye Institute (CLEI) – Hersh Vision Group in New Jersey and serves as its director. He also founded the CLEI Center for Keratoconus in 2001, dedicated to clinical care and research in the corneal disorder, keratoconus. He is a clinical professor at the Rutgers - New Jersey Medical School Institute of Ophthalmology and Visual Science and director of the Institute's Cornea and Refractive Surgery Division and is a Visiting Research Collaborator at Princeton University in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. He is also the Chief Team Ophthalmologist for the NY Jets. Hersh is a member of the American Ophthalmological Society and has been awarded the Senior Honor Award from the American Academy of Ophthalmology. He is also a past recipient of the Teacher of the Year Award from the Harvard Medical School Residency in Ophthalmology.  Research Hersh's research is focused on developing new techniques and technologies in refractive and corneal surgery, most particularly for the corneal disorder, keratoconus. He is the originator of CTAK (corneal tissue addition keratoplasty) for keratoconus, patent holder (US11759308B2, US11406531B1), and co-developer. His clinical interests are devoted to treatment of keratoconus, LASIK, femtosecond laser uses in LASIK and other corneal surgeries, LASEK/Photorefractive keratectomy, CK (conductive keratoplasty), and corneal inlays (Intacs) for keratoconus. He authored or co-authored more than 100 research articles and abstracts on these subjects and has written or co-written four textbooks. Hersh participated in nationwide clinical trials that led to the U.S. FDA's approval of the excimer laser system for the correction of nearsightedness and for the treatment of a variety of corneal diseases in the United States and co-authored the article that presented the results of the study. Hersh is co-author of a patent regarding the use of short pulsed lasers for corneal surgery (#11/843,498)  and is the inventor of a number of surgical instruments used in corneal surgery, such as the Hersh Intralase Flap Spatula  and a complete instrument set for the CTAK procedure. Hersh was one of two investigators to present the conductive keratoplasty (CK) procedure to the FDA device panel. This led to FDA approval of this procedure in 2002. He expanded on these efforts in his thesis for admission to the American Ophthalmological Society entitled "Optics of Conductive Keratoplasty: Implications for Presbyopia Management".  He has also devised new applications of this technique to treat optical irregularities of the cornea. Hersh has done extensive work on corneal collagen cross-linking (CXL), a procedure for decreasing the progression of keratoconus and corneal ectatic disorders,  and he has published numerous articles in ophthalmology medical journals analyzing the results of the use of this procedure for keratoconus and ectasia. As of 2013, he was the U.S. medical monitor for the medical device and pharmaceutical company Avedro, which has developed a new technique of cross-linking to manage keratoconus. Hersh was one of 7 principal investigators involved in the Avedro clinical trials for patients with keratoconus  Publications Books Ophthalmic Surgical Procedures (1998, 2nd ed 2009). Hersh, P S; Zagelbaum, B; Cremers S L.  New York: Thieme Publishing, 2009 Refractive Surgery.  Wu Hu; Steinert, R; Thompson, V; Slade, S; Hersh, P S.  New York: Thieme Publishing 1998 Therapeutic Uses of the Excimer Laser for Corneal Disease.  Hersh, P S; Wagoner, M D.  New York: Thieme Publishing 1998 Eye Trauma.  Shingleton, B; Hersh, P S; Kenyon, K R.  St. Louis: C.V. Mosby, 1991  Articles Hersh PS. Separation and Characterization of the Messenger - RNA's Coding for Alpha-and Beta-Tubulin. Princeton University Thesis (May, 1978). Hersh PS & Kenyon KR. Anterior Segment Reconstruction Following Ocular Trauma. Int. Ophth. Clin. 1988;28:57-68. Kenyon KR & Hersh PS. Anterior Segment Reconstruction Following Ocular Trauma. An. Inst. Barraquer. 1988–1989;20:257-274. Larrison WI, Hersh PS, Kunzweiler T & Shingleton BJ. Sports-Related Ocular Trauma. Ophthal. 1990;97:1265-1269. Hersh PS, Kenyon KR. Complications of Radial Keratotomy: Review of the Literature and Implications for a Developing Country. Indian J. Ophthal. 1990;38:132-138. Hersh PS & Kenyon KR. Penetrating Keratoplasty for Severe Complications of Radial Keratotomy. Cornea 1991;10:170-174. Kenyon KR, Starck T & Hersh PS. Penetrating Keratoplasty and Anterior Segment Reconstruction for Severe Ocular Trauma. Ophthal. 1992;99:396-402. Hersh PS, Spinak A, Garrana R & Mayers M. Excimer laser phototherapeutic keratectomy: strategies and results. Refractive and Corneal Surgery 1993;9:S90-S95. Hersh PS, Jordan AJ & Mayers M. Corneal graft rejection episode after excimer laser phototherapeutic keratectomy. Arch. Ophthal. 1993;111:735-736. Hersh PS, Patel R. Excimer laser correction of myopia and astigmatism using an ablatable mask. Refractive Corneal Surg. 1994;10:250-254. Zagelbaum BM, Hersh PS, Donnenfeld ED, Perry HD & Hochman MA. Ocular trauma in major league baseball players. New England Journal of Medicine. 1994;330:1021-1023. Hersh PS. Iridoschisis following penetrating keratoplasty for keratoconus. Letter. Cornea. 1994;13:545-546. Kenyon KR, Kenyon BM, Starck T & Hersh PS. Penetrating keratoplasty and anterior segment reconstruction for severe ocular trauma. German Journal of Ophthal. 1994;3:90-99. Michalos P, Avila EN, FLorakis GJ & Hersh PS. Do human tears absorb ultraviolet light? CLAO Journal. 1994;20:192-193. Blaker JW & Hersh PS. Theoretical and clinical effect of corneal curvature on excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Refractive Corneal Surg. 1994;10:571-574. Hersh PS, Schwartz-Goldstein B. Summit PRK Topography Study Group. Corneal topography of phase III excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy: Characterization and clinical effects. Ophthal. 1995;102:963-978. Schwartz-Goldstein B, Hersh PS. Summit PRK Topography Study Group. Corneal topography of phase III excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy: Optical zone centration analysis. Ophthal. 1995;102:951-962., Zagelbaum B, Starkey C, Hersh PS, Donnenfeld ED, Perry HD & Jeffers JB. The National Basketball Association (NBA) eye injury study. Arch. Ophthal.. 1995;113:749-752., Carr J, Patel R, Hersh PS. Management of late corneal haze following photorefractive keratectomy. J. Refractive Surg. 1995;11:309-313. Burnstein Y, Klapper D, Hersh PS. Experimental wound rupture following excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Arch. Ophthal. 1995;113:1056-1059. Maloney RK, Chan WK, Steinert R, Hersh P & O'Connell M. A multicenter trial of photorefractive keratectomy for residual myopia following previous ocular surgery. Ophthal. 1995;102:1042-1053. Hersh PS, Carr JD. Excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Ophthalmic Practice 1995; 13:126-133. Burnstein Y, Hersh PS. Photorefractive keratectomy following radial keratotomy. J Refract Surg. 1996;12:163-170., Hersh PS, Shah S, Geiger D, Holladay J. Corneal topography irregularities after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Best Paper of Session Supplement. J Cat Refractive Surg 1995;21:9-13. Shah, SI, Hersh PS. Photorefractive keratectomy for myopia using a 6-mm optical zone. J Refract Surg. 1996;12:341-351., Hersh PS, Shah SI, Durrie D. Monocular diplopia following excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy after radial keratotomy. Ophth Surg Lasers. 1996;27:315-317. Hersh PS, Shah S, Holladay JT. Corneal asphericity following excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Ophth Surg Lasers. 1996;27S:421-428. Hersh PS, Shah S, Geiger D, Holladay J, Summit Photorefractive Keratectomy Topography Study Group. Corneal optical irregularity after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. J. Cat. Refract. Surg. 1996:22:197-204. Hersh PS, Burnstein Y, Carr J, Etwaru G, Mayers M. Phototherapeutic keratectomy: surgical strategies and clinical outcomes. Ophthal. 1996;103:1210-1222., Hersh PS, Schein OD, Steinert RF. Characteristics influencing outcomes of photorefractive keratectomy. Ophthal. 1996;103:1964-1969 . Carr JD, Hersh PS. Excimer laser technology: key concepts for the ophthalmologist. Seminars in Ophthal. 1996;11:212-223. Shah S, Hersh PS. Evolving bias in reporting refractive surgery in the popular press. J. Refract. Surg. 1996;12:638-641. Zagelbaum B, Starkey C, Hersh PS, Donnenfeld ED, Perry HD & Jeffers JB. The National Basketball Association eye injury study. Sports Vision 1996;12:7-11., Hersh PS, Shah S, Summit PRK Topography Study Group. Corneal topography of 6.0 mm excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy: Characterization and clinical effects. Ophthal. 1997;104:1333-1342. Hersh PS, Stulting D, Steinert RF, Waring GO, Thompson K, Doney K, O'Connell M. Results of phase III excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy for myopia. Ophthal. 1997;104:1535-1553. Scher KS, Hersh PS. Disparity between refractive error and visual acuity after photorefractive keratectomy: Multifocal corneal effects. J Cat Ref Surg. 1997;23:1029-1033. Hersh P. A standardized classification system for corneal topography patterns after laser refractive surgery. J Refract Surg. 1997;13:571-578. Hersh PS, Scher KS, Irani R. Corneal topography of PRK and LASIK. Ophthal. 1998;105:612-619. Hersh PS, Brint SF, Berkeley RB, Durrie DS, Gordon M, Maloney RK, Michelson MA, Thompson VM. PRK versus LASIK for moderate to high myopia: A prospective randomized study. Ophthalmology 1998;15:1512-1522. Steinert RF, Hersh PS. Spherical and aspherical photorefractive keratectomy and laser in situ keratomileusis for moderate to high myopia: Two prospective, randomized clinical trials. Tr Am Ophth Soc 1998;96:197-227. Abbas U, Hersh PS Natural history of corneal topography after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Ophthalmology, 1998;15:2212-2224. Manche EE, Carr JD, Haw WW, Hersh PS. Excimer laser refractive surgery. West J Med. 1998;169:30-38 Abbas U, Hersh PS. Copy of Early Corneal topography patterns after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy. Ophthalmology, 1999; 115:22-26. Chiang PK, Hersh PS. Comparing predictability between eyes after bilateral laser in situ keratomileusis. Ophthalmology, 1999:106;1684-1691. Hersh PS, Abbassi R. Surgically induced astigmatism after photorefractive keratectomy and laser in situ keratomileusis. J Cataract Refract Surg, 1999:25:389-398. Fisher EM, Ginsberg NE, Scher KS, Hersh PS. Photorefractive Keratectomy for myopia with a 15 Hz repetition rate.1999;26:363-368. Hersh PS,  Steinert RF, Brint SF Phototherapeutic Keratectomy.versus laser in situ keratomileusis. Comparison of optical side effects. Ophthalmology 2000:107:925-933. Ginsberg NE, Hersh PS. Effect of lamellar flap location on corneal topography after laser in situ keratomileusis. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2000;26;992-1000. Dastgheib KA, Clinch TE, Manche EE, Hersh P, Ramsey J. Sloughing of corneal epithelium and wound healing complications associated with laser in situ keratomileusis in patients with epithelial basement membrane dystrophy. Am J Ophthalmol 2000;130:297-303. Lumba J, Hersh PS. Topography changes associated with sublamellar epithelial ingrowth after laser in situ keratomileusis. J Cataract Refract Surg 26;2000:1413-1416. Karp KO, Hersh PS, Epstein RJ. Delayed keratitis after laser in situ keratomileusis. J. Cat Refract Surg 2000;26:925-928. Abbas UL, Hersh PS. of Late natural history of Corneal Topography after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy.PRK Ophthalmology 2001;108:953-959. Asbell PA, Maloney RK, Davidorf J, Hersh P, McDonald M, Manche E. Conductive keratoplasty for the Correction of Hyperopia Trans Am Ophthalmological Society 2001; 99:79-97. McDonald MB, Davidorf J, Maloney RK, Manche EE, Hersh P. Conductive Keratoplasty for Correction of low to moderate Hyperopia Ophthalmology 2002; 109:637-649 Leu G, Hersh PS. Phototherapeutic Keratectomy for the treatment of diffuse lamellar keratitis. J Cat Refract 2002;28: 1471.1474. Hersh PS, Ratkaran R, Hersh D. Contact Lens evaluation of corneal Keratoplasty for the correction of corbeal topography irregularities after laser refractive surgery. J Cat Refract Surg 2002;28:2054-2057. McDonald MB, Hersh P, Manche EE, Maloney RK, Davidorf J, Sabry M. Conductive Keratoplasty  for the correction of low to moderate hyperopia US clinical trial 1 year results 355 eyes Ophthalmology  2002; 109: 1978-1990 . Hersh PS; Fry KL, Bishop DS.Incidence and Association of Retreatment after LASIK Ophthalmology 2003; 110:748-754.Vol 110 No 4 April 2003.pdf Hersh PS, Fry KL, Blaker, JW.  Spherical aberration after LASIK and PRK. J Cat Refract Surg 2003;11:2096-2104. Klein S, Fry KL, Hersh PS.  LASIK after conductive keratoplasty. J Cat Refract Surg 2004;30:702-705. Steinert RF, Ashrafzadeh A, Hersh PS. Results of phototherapeutic keratectomy in the management of flap striae after LASIK. Ophthalmology 2004;111:740-746. Hersh PS, Fry K, Chandrashekhar R, Fikaris DS. Conductive keratoplasty to complications of LASIK and photorefractive keratectomy. Ophthalmology 2005;112:1941-1947. Hersh PS. Optics of conductive keratoplasty. Implications for presbyopia management. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc 2005;103:412-456. Patel SR, Chu DS, Ayres B, Hersh PS. Corneal edema and penetrating keratoplasty after anterior chamber phakic intraocular lens implantation. J Cat Refract Surg 2005;31:2212-2215. Xu Y, Hersh PS, Chu DS.  Wavefront analysis and Scheimpflug imagery in diagnosis of anterior lenticonus.  J Cat Refract Surg 2010;36:850-853. Van De Sompel D, Kunkel G, Hersh PS, Smiths AJ.  Model of accommodation: Contributions of lens geometry and mechanical properties to the development of presbyopia.  J Cat Refract Surg 2010;36:1960-1971. Greenstein SA, Fry KL, Bhatt J, Hersh PS.  Natural history of corneal haze after collagen crosslinking for keratoconus and corneal ectasia: A Scheimpflug and biomicroscopic analysis.  J Cat Refract Surg 2010;36:2105-2114. Hersh PS, Greenstein SA, Fry KL.  Corneal collagen crosslinking for keratoconus and corneal ectasia: One year results.  J Cat Refract Surg 2011;37:149-160. Greenstein SA, Shah VP, Fry KL, Hersh PS.  Corneal thickness changes after corneal collagen crosslinking for keratoconus and corneal ectasia: One-year results.  J Cat Refract Surg 2011; 37:691-700. Archna P, Fry KL, Hersh PS.  Relationship of Age and Refraction to Central Corneal Thickness.  Cornea 2011; 30: 553–555. Greenstein SA, Fry KL, Hersh PS.  Corneal topography indices after corneal collagen crosslinking for keratoconus and corneal ectasia One-year results.  J Cat Refract Surg 2011; 37: 1282–1290. Greenstein SA, Fry KL, Hersh PS.  In Vivo Biomechanical Changes After Corneal Collagen Cross-linking for Keratoconus and Corneal Ectasia: 1-Year Analysis of a Randomized, Controlled, Clinical Trial.  Cornea 202; 31: 21–25. Greenstein SA, Fry KL, Hersh, MJ, Hersh PS.  Higher-order aberrations after corneal collagen crosslinking for keratoconus and corneal ectasia.  J Cat Refract Surg 2012; 38: 292–302. Brooks NO, Greenstein SA, Fry KL, Hersh PS.  Patient subjective visual function after corneal collagen crosslinking for keratoconus and corneal ectasia.  J Cat Refract Surg 2012; 38:615-619. Hersh PS, Lai MJ, Gelles JD, Lesniak SP. Transepithelial corneal crosslinking for keratoconus. J Cat Refract Surg 2018; 44:313-322. Lai MJ, Greenstein SA, Gelles JD, Hersh PS. Corneal Haze after Transepithelial Collagen Crosslinking for Keratoconus: A Scheimpflug Densitometry Analysis. Cornea. 2020;39(9):1117-1121.  References External links Hersh, Peter S. on WorldCat

The shires of Scotland (Scottish Gaelic: Siorrachdan na h-Alba; Scots: Scots coonties), or counties of Scotland, are historic subdivisions of Scotland established in the Middle Ages and used as administrative divisions until 1975. Originally established for judicial purposes (being the territory over which a sheriff had jurisdiction), from the 17th century they started to be used for local administration purposes as well. The areas used for judicial functions (sheriffdoms) came to diverge from the shires, which ceased to be used for local government purposes after 1975 under the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973. Today, local government in Scotland is based upon council areas, which sometimes incorporate county names, but frequently have vastly different boundaries. Counties continue to be used for land registration, and form the basis of the lieutenancy areas (although the latter are not entirely identical).  History Sheriffdoms or shires Malcolm III (reigned 1058 to 1093) appears to have introduced sheriffs as part of a policy of replacing previous forms of government with French feudal structures. This policy was continued by Edgar (reigned 1097 to 1107), Alexander I (reigned 1107 to 1124), and in particular David I (reigned 1124 to 1153). David completed the division of the country into sheriffdoms by the conversion of existing thanedoms. The earliest sheriffdom south of the Forth which we know of for certain is Haddingtonshire, which is named in a charter of 1139 as Hadintunschira and in another of 1141 as Hadintunshire. Stirlingshire appears in a charter of 1150 under the name Striuelinschire. The shires of the Highlands were completed only in the reign of King Charles I (reigned 1625 to 1649).  Shires extant by 1305 In 1305 Edward I of England, who had deposed John Balliol, issued an ordinance for the government of Scotland. The document listed the twenty-three shires then existing and either appointed new sheriffs or continued heritable sheriffs in office.  ^a  Gospatric was mentioned as sheriff in a number of charters of Earl David. The shire was not listed in the ordinance, and in 1305 appears to have been partly under the jurisdiction of the sheriff of Selkirk, with the remainder comprised in the constabularies of Jedburgh and Roxburgh under the jurisdiction of the constable of Berwick. The shire was one of those surrendered to Edward III of England in 1334.  Shires formed after 1305 The remaining shires were formed either by the territorial expansion of the Kingdom of Scotland, or by the subdivision of existing sheriffdoms. Many of the new shires had highly irregular boundaries or detached parts as they united the various possessions of the heritable sheriffs.  c. 1326: Argyll (or Argyle): lordship subdued by Alexander II in 1222. Norwegian claims over the area finally ended in 1266. First record of appointment of sheriff dates from 1326. 1369: Kirkcudbright: formed when area between Rivers Nith and Cree granted to Archibald the Grim. Archibald appointed a steward to administer the area, hence it became a "stewartry". c. 1388: Bute: the islands formed part of Kintyre district of Argyll. A heritable sheriff was appointed to the shire in 1388. 1402: Renfrew: separated from the Shire of Lanark by Robert III. Tarbertshire: existed from before 1481, when it gained territory from Perthshire, until 1633, when it was annexed to Argyll. 1503: Ross: formed from part of Inverness by act of parliament during the reign of James IV, the sheriff to sit at Tain or Dingwall. Sheriffs were seldom appointed, and further acts of 1649 and 1661 restated its separation from Inverness. The 1661 act also clarified the area encompassed, based on the pre-Reformation Diocese of Ross. Sir George Mackenzie's Ross-shire estates were transferred to Cromartyshire by a 1685 act of parliament (repealed 1686, re-enacted 1690). 1503: Caithness: formed from part of Inverness by the same 1503 act as Ross-shire, the sheriff to sit at Dornoch or Wick. The area of the sheriffdom was to be identical to that of the Diocese of Caithness. 1581: Orkney: erected into a lordship with the right of sheriffship. It was annexed to the Crown in 1612, although the term "lordship" continued to be applied to the area. 1633: Sutherland: separated from Inverness.b ^b  In 1583 the Earl of Huntly, hereditary sheriff of Inverness, granted the Earl of Sutherland jurisdiction over the sheriffdom of Sutherland and Strathnaver. This was only the south-eastern area of the later county, with Halladale River forming the boundary. The shire was formed in 1631 by crown writ of Charles I, severing Sutherland from Inverness. The new county comprised the Earldom of Sutherland along with Assynt and the baronies between Ross and Caithness. Dornoch was appointed the head burgh of the shire. The writ was confirmed by the Parliament of Scotland in 1633.  1707 Act of Union and the ending of heritable jurisdictions From the 17th century the shires (counties) started to be used for local administration apart from judicial functions. In 1667 Commissioners of Supply were appointed in each sheriffdom to collect the land tax. The commissioners eventually assumed other duties in the county. Following the union of Scotland with England, the government began bringing Scotland's local governance into line with the rest of Great Britain. The full machinery of county government was not immediately established, largely due to the fact that the office of sheriff or steward had become hereditary in certain families in the majority of sheriffdoms. At the accession of George II twenty-two sheriffs were hereditary, three were appointed for life and only eight held office at the pleasure of the monarch. The heritable sheriffdoms were Argyll, Bute, Banff, Caithness, Clackmannan, Cromarty, Dumbarton, Dumfries, Elgin, Fife, Kinross, Kirkcudbright, Linlithgow, Nairn, Orkney & Zetland, Peebles, Renfrew, Roxburgh, Selkirk, Sutherland, Stirling and Wigtown; those appointed for life were Perth, Forfar and Ayr; those held at pleasure were Aberdeen, Berwick, Edinburgh, Haddington, Inverness, Kincardine, Lanark and Ross. Following the unsuccessful Jacobite Rising of 1745 the government took the opportunity of overhauling county government. The Heritable Jurisdictions Act 1747 revested the government of the shires in the Crown, compensating those office holders who were displaced. The Sheriffs (Scotland) Act 1747 reduced the office of sheriff principal to a largely ceremonial one, with a sheriff depute or sheriff substitute appointed to each "county, shire or stewartry". Twelve of the smallest counties were paired to form sheriffdoms, a process of amalgamation that was to continue until the twentieth century, and thus led to the sheriffdoms and the shires having different boundaries. In 1794 Lord-Lieutenants were appointed to each county, and in 1797 county militia regiments were raised, bringing Scotland into line with England, Wales and Ireland.  Later developments In 1858 police forces were established in each shire under the Police (Scotland) Act 1857. Burghs were largely outside the jurisdiction of shire authorities. Under the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1889, thirty-four county councils were formed. The areas governed by these councils, referred to as "administrative counties", resembled the traditional shires of Scotland, but not entirely. Exclaves were abolished, with the exception of one exclave of Dunbartonshire. Ross-shire and Cromartyshire were merged into Ross and Cromarty, and four cities - Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh and Glasgow - were made counties in their own right. These "counties of cities" were periodically expanded as their urban areas spread further and further into the surrounding countryside. In general, they were still considered part of the wider geographical county; for instance, Glasgow was still reckoned part of Lanarkshire, though it was no longer within the jurisdiction of Lanark County Council. Under the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1929, two pairs of councils were combined with each other to form the "joint county councils" of Perth & Kinross and Moray & Nairn. Though governed by the same council, each county remained nominally independent from the other. In 1963 the Government published a white paper which proposed a reduction in the number of counties from thirty-four to between ten and fifteen. A process of consultation between county councils and officials from the Scottish Office was begun to effect the amalgamations. Following a change of government, it was announced in 1965 that a "more comprehensive and authoritative" review of local government areas would be undertaken. In 1966 a Royal Commission on Local Government in Scotland, chaired by Lord Wheatley, was appointed. The commission's report in 1969 recommended the replacement of the counties with larger regions. In 1970 another change in government control was followed by the publication of a white paper in 1971 implementing the commission's reforms in a modified form. The abolition of counties "for local government purposes" was enacted by the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973, with counties playing no part in local government after 16 May 1975, being replaced by regions and districts. Local government was reorganised again under the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994, with the regions and districts being replaced by the currently existing council areas. These councils are unitary, meaning they undertake all local governance within their area, though "community councils" do operate in several towns. The historic counties of Scotland are included in the Index of Place Names (IPN) published by the Office for National Statistics. Each "place" included in the IPN is related to the historic county it lies within, as well as to a set of administrative areas.  Names In official documents shires were referred to as the Shire of X, rather than X Shire. The latter was more common in general usage. Thus in parliamentary proceedings one may find, for example, a heading referring to "Act for the shirrefdome of Dumbartane" but the text "the sevine kirkis to Dumbartane schyr." The first accurate county maps of Scotland appear in the late seventeenth century and contain a first-hand record of shire names. John Adair (maps c. 1682) gives the names of Midlothian, East Lothian, Twaddall and Wast Lothian (the latter also as "Linlithgowshire"). The eighteenth century county maps of Herman Moll (dated c. 1745) preferred to keep the "Shire" suffix a separate word, as for example "Berwick Shire", "Roxburgh Shire", "the Shire of Selkirk otherwise known as Etterick Forest", and in the north to "Murray" (Moray), "Inverness Shire", "Aberdeen Shire", "Banff Shire", "Ross Shire". The map of Boswell's and Johnson's A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland (1773) gives "Shire" to every one shown, including "Angus Shire" and "Fife Shire". Several shires have alternative names of long standing. These include:  Angus – Forfarshire East Lothian – Haddingtonshire Kincardineshire – The Mearns Midlothian – Edinburghshire Moray – Elginshire Peeblesshire – Tweeddale Roxburghshire – Teviotdale Selkirkshire – Ettrick Forest West Lothian – Linlithgowshire In Scotland, as in England and Wales, the terms "shire" and "county" have been used interchangeably, with the latter becoming more common in later usage. Today, "county" is more commonly used, with "shire" being seen as a more poetic or archaic variant.  Lists of shires Counties until 1890 The map depicts a large number of exclaves physically detached from the county that they were politically deemed to be part of. Cromartyshire's borders, a particularly fragmentary example, were achieved as late as 1685, although at that time the word "county" was not applied to the sheriffdom.  Counties from 1890 to 1975 See also List of local government areas in Scotland (1930–1975) History of local government in the United Kingdom List of counties of Scotland in 1951 by population and by area List of counties of Scotland in 1971 by population List of Scottish counties by highest point List of burghs in Scotland Local government areas of Scotland (1975–1996) Lieutenancy areas of Scotland Subdivisions of Scotland List of places in Scotland Counties of the United Kingdom  Notes References External links  The Historic Counties Trust Campaign for Historic Counties Interactive map of the historic counties Records of the Parliaments of Scotland The National Library of Scotland: Maps of Scotland

The September 7–9, 1863 fall of the Cumberland Gap was a victory for Union forces under the command of Ambrose Burnside during his campaign for Knoxville. The bloodless engagement cost the Confederates 2,300 men captured and control of the Cumberland Gap.  Background Major General Ambrose Burnside, commander of the Department and Army of the Ohio, began to advance against Knoxville, Tennessee. Burnside left Cincinnati, Ohio in mid-August 1863. The direct route ran through the Confederate-held Cumberland Gap. Burnside had been delayed in earlier attempts to move out against Knoxville and thus chose not to spend the time to force a passage of the gap. Instead he detached one brigade under Colonel John F. DeCourcy to pose a threat to Brigadier General John W. Frazer's 2,300 man garrison, while the rest of the army bypassed to the south over 40 miles in rugged mountainous terrain.  DeCourcy had previously led a brigade in the 1862 operations against the Cumberland Gap under George W. Morgan. Despite this, Burnside made a rapid advance on Knoxville. Many of the Confederates in eastern Tennessee had been withdrawn for the upcoming Battle of Chickamauga, leaving only two brigades under General Sam Jones (including Frazer's). Having successfully occupied Knoxville on September 2, Burnside could now return his attention to the Cumberland Gap.  Battle Frazer and his 2,300-man garrison had little combat experience, yet they had the benefit of a strong natural defense. Frazer's men supplemented this by digging their own trenches. General Simon B. Buckner had given Frazer orders to hold the gap at all cost, yet when Buckner and all his troops were redeployed, no contingency had been formulated for retreat and therefore Frazer continued following his orders from Buckner to hold the gap. DeCourcy's brigade threatened the Confederates from the north, but his brigade alone was not enough to force Frazer out of the gap. Burnside dispatched a second brigade under Brigadier General James M. Shackelford. Shackelford approached from the south and, on September 7, asked for Frazer's surrender. There were still not enough Union troops to convince Frazer to surrender. An ineffectual exchange of artillery followed but that evening Union soldiers captured Gap Springs, the Confederate water supply. On September 8 Burnside personally left Knoxville with a brigade under Colonel Samuel A. Gilbert and marched 60 miles in just over a day.  Meanwhile, both DeCourcy and Shackelford sent messages demanding surrender. Attempting to buy time, Frazer met with the two Union commanders separately, but rejected surrender demands from both. Around 10:00 a.m. on September 9, Burnside sent a message to Frazer stating he now had a large enough force to carry the gap by storm. The large Union force, little combat experience and low morale (after news of Vicksburg and Gettysburg) all factored into Frazer's decision to surrender. Around 3:00 p.m. Frazer agreed to an unconditional surrender of all the Confederates guarding the Cumberland Gap.  Between 100 and 300 men managed to escape through DeCourcy's lines after the surrender had taken place, but the rest of the soldiers, arms, 14 pieces of artillery and the strategic location were now in Union control. This was the last major operation against the Cumberland Gap and it would remain in Union hands for the rest of the war.  Opposing forces Union Department of the Ohio - Maj. Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside  Independent Brigade, IX Corps - Colonel John F. DeCourcy 8th Tennessee Cavalry 9th Tennessee Cavalry 11th Tennessee Cavalry 86th Ohio Infantry 129th Ohio Infantry 22nd Ohio Battery 3rd Brigade, 4th Division, XXIII Corps - Brig. Gen. James M. Shackelford 2nd Ohio Cavalry 7th Ohio Cavalry 9th Michigan Cavalry 2nd Tennessee Mounted Infantry 1st Tennessee Battery 11th Michigan Battery 1st Brigade, 3rd Division, XXIII Corps - Colonel Samuel A. Gilbert 44th Ohio Infantry 100th Ohio Infantry 104th Ohio Infantry  Confederate 5th Brigade, Army of Tennessee - Brig. Gen. John W. Frazer 55th Georgia Infantry Regiment - Major Daniel S. Printup 62nd North Carolina Infantry Regiment - Major Bryan G. McDowell 64th North Carolina Infantry Regiment - Lieutenant Colonel William N. Garrett 64th Virginia Infantry Regiment - Colonel Campbell Slemp 1st Tennessee Cavalry Regiment - Colonel James E. Carter  See also List of battles fought in Kentucky  Notes References Eicher, John H., & Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, ISBN 0-8047-3641-3. Korn, Jerry, and the Editors of Time-Life Books. The Fight for Chattanooga: Chickamauga to Missionary Ridge. Alexandria, VA: Time-Life Books, 1985. ISBN 0-8094-4816-5. Official Records of the War of the Rebellion

Brooke Logan is a fictional character from The Bold and the Beautiful, an American soap opera on the CBS network. She has been portrayed by Katherine Kelly Lang since the series's debut in March 1987. The character is part of the original four central characters and actors (including her onscreen double-decade long love and husband, Ridge Forrester, and his parents Stephanie and Eric). Over the years, she has developed into a business woman working at Forrester Creations and a mother to five children: Rick, Bridget, Hope, R.J. and Jack. Her character is described as having "emerged as the show's quintessential vixen, always in turmoil and forever symbolic of true love and destiny prevailing." The character has also had long-time rivalries with Stephanie Forrester and Taylor Hayes. In addition to Ridge (whom she married eight times), Brooke has also had marriages with Eric Forrester, Ridge's two half-brothers, Thorne Forrester and Nick Marone, her brother-in-law Bill Spencer, Jr., and several others, including marriages to Whip Jones and Grant Chambers.  Casting Katherine Kelly Lang debuted as the character in the soap's first episode on March 23, 1987, and continues to portray the role to this day. In 1987, she was briefly replaced by Catherine Hickland while Lang was on sick leave, with Hickland appearing on July 9 and 13 of that year. In 1997, Sandra Ferguson filled in for a small amount of time during Lang's maternity leave. In 2012, Lang announced that she had signed a two-year contract with the series, ensuring her stay until 2014. Lang’s character has also appeared on The Young and the Restless in past crossover events. Lang’s appearances on the show were January 6–8, 1999; May 11, 1999; and July 5, 2007.  Character development Lang, who is known for her ready smile and engaging manner, has confessed to sometimes calling Ronn Moss (Ridge) his onscreen name, Ridge; "Sometimes I just call him Ridge out of habit" she has confessed to the Sydney Morning Herald. Lang said of the ongoing plots and twists in the relationship: "Ridge and Brooke will always be connected [but] the heart of the drama is what happens when true love is thwarted.". During an interview with Who! On January 29, 2008, actress Katherine Kelly Lang was asked "What do you like about your character Brooke Logan?", Lang stated "I like that she doesn't give up, no matter how depressed she may be or the bad things that she may be going through, she always bounces back", highlighting the continuing resilience within the character. She also said "I think she has a real grasp of things, even though she still doesn't have her love life under control but, hopefully, that will come together too," and at the end of the day she wants her character to be "Happy". In mid-2010, Taylor's (Brooke Forrester's nemesis) daughter Steffy Forrester began going after Hope Logan (Brooke's now teen daughter)'s boyfriends. This re-ignited both Taylor and Brooke's rivalry and began a new generation rivalry. Bradley Bell stated on this: "is exciting to see Brooke and Taylor in the more maternal roles. Brooke has a daughter -- miraculously -- who is sweet and a virgin. She is just a darling; and Taylor has a daughter who is trouble. She knows how to manipulate men and she is very sexual [Like Brooke]". Of the character's "accidental" infidelity with her daughter's (Hope) boyfriend Oliver Jones, Lang stated: "She was excited and high on her hormones" during an interview with Michael Fairman. Hope began to become more like her mother when she became more sexual in her relationship with Liam's half-brother, Wyatt Spencer. And the fact that she was dating two half brothers, Liam and Wyatt, at the same time, just as Brooke did with Ridge Forrester and Nick Marone. Ivy Forrester kept stating Hope is a lot like Brooke and so did Stephanie.  Storylines Backstory Brooke is the eldest of the Logan sisters. She studied chemistry during her early days in college. Brooke is the daughter of Beth and Stephen Logan, the elder sister of Donna Logan (Jennifer Gareis) and Katie Logan (Heather Tom), and the younger sister of Storm Logan (played by William deVry at the time of the character's death in 2008). She worked for Ruth Wilson’s catering business who often served rich pillars of the community (including the Forrester family).  1987–present Brooke and Ridge met when she asked her mother to help cater a Forrester party so she could meet Ridge. She fell instantly in love with the handsome playboy Ridge, who was engaged to be married to Caroline Spencer. After finding out that Ridge had spent the night with Alex, Caroline collapsed at the wedding and broke it off with Ridge. Caroline was raped shortly after that, and Brooke shortly befriended her after visiting her at the hospital. Brooke was so smitten with Ridge that she broke off her engagement to David, a police officer, because even her brother knew she would never be happy on a cop's pay. Hiding a letter Ridge wrote to Caroline spilling his heart to her and telling her he loved her, Brooke conspired with Thorne to keep Ridge and Caroline apart. Caroline became engaged to Thorne and Brooke and Ridge fell in love with each other, with Brooke becoming pregnant. Ridge and Caroline hid their true feelings for each other. Once Brooke lost the baby in a tragic miscarriage, Ridge broke off the relationship with her and began one with Caroline again. Caroline broke it off with Thorne after admitting she was still in love with Ridge, and they quickly married. A devastated Brooke turned to Eric for comfort and ended up pregnant, so Eric married her. After the death of Caroline Ridge met and fell in love with Taylor Hayes, the doctor who cared for Caroline. Despite this, Ridge was still involved with and loved both women, Brooke and Taylor, while Taylor herself was also involved with Brooke's brother Storm. Brooke created the wrinkle-free formula BeLieF for design house Forrester Creations and celebrated with Ridge by making love on the lab floor. Brooke and Ridge were intimate again when they believed that Eric wanted Stephanie back thanks to a forged letter from Stephanie. In the end however, Ridge chose Taylor as he did not want to be the cause of the end of Brooke and his father's marriage, and hoped if he chose Taylor, Brooke would stay with Eric. On the wedding day of Ridge and Taylor, Brooke ran to find them thinking she was pregnant with her and Ridge's child, when in fact she was pregnant with her and Eric's second child, Bridget. A paternity test was later conducted, with Sheila Carter tampering with the results and having everyone believe Ridge was the father; it would be years later before the truth about Bridget's true parentage was revealed. When Ridge wouldn't leave Taylor, Brooke dated attorney Connor Davis, who informed Brooke she had a legal right to the BeLieF patent. Furious when Ridge tried to sweet-talk her out of her rights, Brooke obtained 51% of Forrester Creations and appointed herself CEO, even slapping Stephanie, who struck Brooke first. Brooke created a men's line, putting Ridge at the helm; Brooke fell into the pool and knocked herself unconscious when Ridge playfully shoved her. After Taylor was presumed dead in a plane crash, Brooke became engaged to psychiatrist James Warwick, but accepted Ridge's proposal instead. Brooke finally married Ridge in a lavish beach ceremony, then honeymooned with him in Morocco, where they were guests of Prince Omar Rashid. Once home, Brooke cared for Ridge when he was blinded in a lab accident and was horrified to learn that the hospital volunteer treating Ridge was actually Taylor, who had been saved by Omar but held prisoner in his palace. Brooke tried to keep Taylor's existence from Ridge, but when the truth came out, Brooke learned her marriage to Ridge was invalid. Brooke heaved a sigh of relief when Ridge asked Taylor for a divorce, clearing the way for Brooke to remarry Ridge. Brooke later had a short marriage to a man named Grant Chambers in 1997; after giving him a friendly kiss, causing Ridge to propose to Taylor at a fashion show, Brooke rebelled by marrying Grant. However, their marriage was never legal due to a fraudulent sea captain who performed the ceremony. In 1998, Taylor became pregnant with her and Ridge's child; however, she told everyone the baby belonged to Thorne after seeing Ridge in bed with Brooke. In reality, a drunken Ridge had fallen into bed with Brooke while visiting her at her home, though he end things with Brooke before they could fully make love.  Brooke later became interested in Thorne and overcame obstacles with him and his then wife, Macy. Macy was killed in a car accident, which Brooke survived. Thorne and Brooke parted ways, and she turned her attention back to Ridge, who was still married to Taylor. Brooke was later tricked by the Forrester family into traveling to Paris to keep away from the happily married Taylor and Ridge (who had since had twins, Steffy and Phoebe). After she came back, Brooke had an affair with her daughter Bridget's husband, Deacon Sharpe. Bridget was disgusted by this, and later Brooke gave birth to a daughter named Hope Logan as a result of the scandalous affair. Briefly during the pregnancy, she married a Forrester co-worker Whip Jones to cover up her adulterous affair. When Taylor was murdered by Sheila Carter, Ridge and Brooke found their way back to one another. Sheila returned and later held Ridge, Brooke and the Sailor who arrived in L.A., Nick Marone hostage for ransom. Ridge was briefly presumed dead after falling into a fire pit, and Brooke slept with Nick while mourning. Ridge returned and Brooke later fell pregnant and gave birth to R.J. (Ridge Junior) Forrester. The baby was initially thought to be her and Nick's child, but later proved to be her and Ridge's. When Taylor returned from the dead In 2005, Stephanie Forrester faked a heart attack and asked for her dying wish to be Ridge and Taylor's reunion. Brooke moved out of Ridge's life, and began a relationship with Nick in 2006. She faced complications as Nick was also in an on-again, off-again relationship with her daughter Bridget. She and Nick divorced for the sake of Bridget's ill- fated pregnancy (the baby was stillborn). In 2007, Brooke tried to interfere with Ridge's relationship with Ashley Abbott. She left town after being practically pushed out by Stephanie, who had supported Ashley and Ridge's relationship. Brooke started to go after Nick again. When Taylor and Nick (together now) decided to have a baby, they needed an egg donor. After baby Jack was born, it was revealed that Brooke was the biological mother of the baby and the eggs were hers through a mix up. Taylor had an emotional breakdown and recovered, and decided to share Jack with Brooke so that the child could have a biological connection. In 2009, Taylor and Brooke began to fight for Ridge's affections once again after Taylor's relationship with Brooke's much younger son Rick. Taylor and Ridge married; however, he returned to Brooke shortly after. In 2010, Brooke repeated history, as she had once done with Deacon and Bridget, when she accidentally had sex with Hope's then-boyfriend, Oliver Jones, and like Bridget, Hope forgave her. In 2011, Brooke and Thomas, while on a business trip to promote Thomas Forrester's Taboo men's line at Forrester Creations, ended up stranded on an island. While stranded, Brooke and Thomas ingested poisonous berries as a means of survival. The berries planted the idea that Brooke and Thomas had slept together. When they returned home safely, Stephanie teamed up with Thomas together to come up with the lie that he and Brooke had sex on the island, in order to break up her marriage with Ridge. This allowed Ridge and Taylor to nearly remarry, until Stephanie revealed the truth, allowing Ridge to reunite with Brooke. Ridge proposes to Brooke in Italy. Stephanie offers to organise the wedding at her house; it was a simple ceremony with only family as guests. Ridge and Brooke leave for their honeymoon after the speeches have taken place. While on their honeymoon, Brooke is in touch with Deacon via text, and Ridge finds out, but when he asks Brooke about it, she denies it. Ridge tells Brooke he can no longer take the lies and tells her he will not be returning home with her. Brooke arrives home without Ridge to deal with Katie. When Katie, who is suffering from post-partum depression, walks out on the marriage, Brooke and Bill, Katie's husband, grow closer and share a kiss. When Katie's back, she forgives the two. Brooke and Bill collaborated to re-launch the Brooke's Bedroom line at Forrester Creations. Brooke and Bill spend time together and Brooke tries to help Bill with the distance in his marriage to Katie. Katie is upset at their growing closeness despite their reassurances that nothing was going on. Eventually Brooke and Bill begin an affair, but after sleeping together they decide to break things off for Katie's sake. After suffering worrying symptoms, such as a fever and not sleeping well, Brooke decides to visit her doctor.  The doctor says that its menopause and that they will have to run tests.  When Brooke gets the test results back, she is shocked to discover that she is pregnant with her and Bill's baby. Hurt and deeply upset, she turns to Eric, who's in a relationship with Taylor, and asks him to say the baby is his. In this way she hopes to keep her indiscretion from Katie and hide her pregnancy from Bill. Eric refuses and urges her to come clean to both Katie and Bill. Taylor who has suspected that Brooke and Bill were having an affair finds out about the pregnancy. At a surprise birthday party for Brooke, Taylor tells the guests including Katie about the affair. By that time, Brooke's body had mysteriously "absorbed" the pregnancy according to her doctor and she was hoping it would never come out. In 2013, Katie goes missing shortly after giving birth to Will, and suffering from post-partum depression. Bill tracks Katie down in Aspen, Colorado, and Brooke helps him search for Katie. Brooke and Bill begin to act on their feelings for each other, hiding it from Katie, until Taylor found out. At a party for Brooke’s birthday, Taylor exposes Brooke and Bill’s affair in front of the Forrester, Logan and Spencer families, resulting in Katie screaming at Bill and Brooke. Brooke later criticised Katie when she decided to use her divorce with Bill to gain control of Spencer publications. Brooke reconnected with Bill in Monte Carlo, then traveled with him to Aspen, where he nearly fell from a cliff. As a result, Bill re-evaluated his recent decisions, and later returned to Katie. However, this did not last as Katie discovered that Bill was only trying to regain control of his company. Ridge returned to LA (now played by Thorsten Kaye), and the two reunite and almost remarry. However, Katie fainted at their wedding, and later revealed that she did it in order to stop the wedding due to her developing feelings for Ridge. Katie and Ridge have a brief relationship, and Brooke becomes jealous when Ridge proposes to Katie, giving her a red string instead of an engagement ring. Brooke helps Bill regain control of Spencer Publications, and the two go to the UAE to marry. However, Ridge arrives in time to stop the wedding with a picture of Bill in bed with Quinn Fuller. Bill exacted revenge on Ridge by having Justin throw him out of a helicopter. After disappearing briefly, Ridge returns with an impaired memory and had lost his design ability. Brooke was later furious when Ridge began having an affair with Caroline Spencer, Rick’s then-wife. Brooke then finds herself caught between two men – Bill and Deacon, who had recently returned to LA to be a part of Hope’s life. Brooke then leaves LA for three months to work in Milan, Italy. Upon returning, she decides that she wants to be with Ridge, but he rejects her to marry Caroline. Brooke then turns to alcohol, and Deacon helps her deal with it by attending AA meetings with her. Brooke’s alcoholism resulted in her acting strangely at Bill and Katie’s second wedding, and also began raising suspicions from Quinn, who was then involved with Deacon. Quinn found out about Brooke and Deacon’s affair, and slapped  her to the floor. Brooke then crashed Deacon and Quinn’s wedding by bringing Hope in via Skype in an unsuccessful attempt to stop the ceremony. Brooke and Ridge became closer after he revealed to her that he had a vasectomy, and that Thomas was the biological father of Caroline’s baby, Douglas. Katie decided to make amends with Brooke by offering her a job at Spencer Publications, which resulted in Bill and Brooke re-igniting their feelings. Bill and Brooke began to raise suspicions, causing Katie to begin drinking excessively. After Ridge manipulates Eric into kicking Rick, Maya and Nicole out of the Forrester Mansion, Brooke allows them to stay. Brooke began to resurrect her feelings for Bill but did not want to have an affair with him while married to Katie. Katie then found out about Brooke and Bill’s affair, resulting in a complicated divorce, with Katie receiving $50 000 000 from Bill, and the two sharing custody of Will. Bill promised Brooke his 12.5% stake in Forrester Creations, which Brooke would sell to Ridge in order to help him remove Quinn from the company. However, on the day of Brooke and Bill’s wedding, on Halloween 2016, Ridge stopped the wedding and won back Brooke after Bill left her at the altar. Ridge then proposed to Brooke at Stephanie’s grave, and eventually the two found their way back to each other. In March 2017, the Forrester and Spencer families traveled to Sydney, Australia for Liam and Steffy’s third wedding. Ridge and Brooke decided to get married there as well, until Brooke discovered Quinn and Ridge kissing at a beach. Originally determined to tell Eric, Ridge and Quinn manipulated Brooke into keeping quiet, but broke off her engagement with Ridge. Brooke stayed in Sydney while everyone else returned to LA, and was comforted by Bill. Bill and Brooke finally marry in May 2017, and honeymooned in Paris. Their marriage ends when Bill confess to Brooke about burning Spectra Fashions, and that he punched Liam. Steffy convinces Brooke not to leave Bill, and that he is sorry. Brooke almost goes back to him until Bill almost killed Liam and Sally when Bill torn down the newly repaired Spectra Fashions building for his skyscraper. Ridge then wins Brooke back and marries her in 2018 at the Forrester mansion, with Stephanie's picture hanging on the fireplace. Stephanie's voice talks to Brooke at her wedding and tells her that she is proud of her becoming a better woman. Brooke tells Stephanie that she missed her every day and especially on her wedding day. Brooke's daughter Hope (Annika Noelle) faced a tragedy when her granddaughter Beth, was stillborn and her marriage to Liam Spencer ended. Brooke later learns that her brother Storm has a daughter named Flo Fulton, and that she gave her daughter Phoebe to Steffy to raise. Brooke happily welcomes  Flo into the family. When Ridge's son Thomas (Matthew Atkinson) returns after Caroline passed away, he starts to pursue Hope and manipulates her into marrying him. Brooke disprove of their relationship because of Thomas's past with Rick and is worry about Hope because she still loves Liam and is still grieving over Beth. However, when Ridge tells Brooke that Douglas told Liam, Steffy, and Hope that Beth is alive, Liam would not let it go and believes Douglas. Ridge assures Brooke that Douglas may have been confused, and has not check up on Liam with losing Beth. Also Ridge tells Brooke Liam stormed out of her house when he saw an error on Phoebes birth certificate, and wanted to talk to Flo. Brooke and Ridge then storms over to Forrester Creations, to get answers from Flo about Phoebe. Flo and her mother Shauna are there and Brooke asks Flo about Liam's assumptions about Phoebe being Beth. Flo confesses that she is not Phoebe's birth mother, but Hope is the birth mother. Brooke angrily demands Flo to tell her how Steffy has her granddaughter. Flo revealed that Dr. Reese Buckingham (Hope's doctor) owed people a lot of money from a gambling debt and that he needed the money fast or they would kill Zoe (Buckingham's daughter). Flo goes into detail that Reese stole Beth from hope when she passed out from labor, and that he switched Beth with another baby who was stillborn. Also Reese made Hope and Liam believe that the baby they were holding was Beth, and had Flo give Steffy Beth and collect the money from Taylor for the adoption for his debt. Flo tells Brooke and Ridge that Taylor had no idea what Reese was doing, and that she wanted to give Steffy a daughter for her to raise.  Brooke then is shocked when Zoe knew what her father did and didn't say a word so that he won't get arrested. Zoe apologises to Brooke and Ridge for keeping Beth away from Hope and Liam. However Zoe and Flo tell Brooke and Ridge that Thomas knew about Beth and did not say anything because Hope would leave him for Liam. Also, Thomas had threaten them if they ever tell anybody about Beth being alive. Ridge then call UK police to let them now about Reese's crime and to have him arrested.  Reception The world-wide success of The Bold and the Beautiful has meant world-wide controversy among fans for this most controversial of characters. As far away from the U.S.A. as Kenya, men heatedly condemn this "evil" and "wicked" woman, while women praise her for being "independent and put[ting] men where they belong." In 2013, she received her  first Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series nomination for her portrayal of Brooke after 25 years of joining the soap. In May 2020, Lang received a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series nomination for her work as Brooke. In 2024, she was shortlisted for the same award. In 2022, Charlie Mason from Soaps She Knows placed Brooke third on his ranked list of The Bold and the Beautiful’s Best of the Best Characters Ever, commenting "The so-called “slut from the Valley” has come a long way, baby! But — thank goodness! — Katherine Kelly Lang’s character remains a slave to her (cough) destiny, as much passion’s plaything as she ever was." Mason also put Hickland's portrayal of Brooke on his list of the worst soap opera temporary recasts, commenting that it "didn't work" and adding that it is "downright impossible today to imagine anyone but Katherine Kelly Lang playing Brooke". In 2024, Mason included Brooke in his list of the worst mothers in American soap operas, writing, "Since this is daytime we're talking about, we could give her a pass for shtupping one of her daughters' husbands. But two? And yet another daughter's boyfriend? No. Sorry. No Mother's Day card for you, Brooke."  In popular culture R&B singer Tamar Braxton named her son Logan after the character of Brooke Logan, due to her husband's love of the show.   == References ==

Bryan Lavastida (born November 27, 1998) is an American professional baseball catcher in the Cleveland Guardians organization.  Career Lavastida attended Westland Hialeah Senior High School and played college baseball at Hillsborough Community College. He was drafted by the Cleveland Indians in the 15th round of the 2018 Major League Baseball draft. Lavastida made his professional debut with the Arizona League Indians, batting .292 over 33 games. He played 2019 with the Mahoning Valley Scrappers and Lake County Captains, slashing .335/.410/.481 with two home runs and 38 runs batted in over 59 games. He did not play in 2020 because the season was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He started 2021 with Lake County before being promoted to the Akron RubberDucks. He was promoted to the Columbus Clippers in September. Over 84 games between the two teams, he slashed .289/.380/.456 with nine home runs, 51 runs batted in, and 16 stolen bases. The newly named Cleveland Guardians selected Lavastida to their 40-man roster on November 19, 2021. On April 2, 2022, the Guardians announced that he had been named to the Opening Day roster. He appeared in only 6 games for Cleveland in his rookie campaign, going 1-for-12 with three walks. Lavastida spent the majority of the season with Akron and Columbus, hitting .209/.284/.349 with 9 home runs, 30 RBI, and 7 stolen bases in 84 games. Lavastida was optioned to Triple-A Columbus to begin the 2023 season. He was designated for assignment on April 23, 2023. After clearing waivers, he was sent outright to Double-A Akron on April 28.  References External links Career statistics and player information from MLB, or ESPN, or Baseball Reference, or Fangraphs, or Baseball Reference (Minors), or Retrosheet

Daniel Robert Pabon (born October 18, 1977) is an American politician and lawyer from Colorado. He is a former member of the Colorado House of Representatives, having served from 2011-2019.  Biography Pabon grew up in the same community he is now serving in the Colorado House of Representatives. Pabon attended Holy Family and then studied engineering at the University of Colorado at Boulder, where he was elected Co-Student Body President his senior year.  As a law student at CU Boulder, he worked for the Legal Aid and Defenders Program. He helped the poor and disabled obtain Social Security benefits, navigated them through family law, and acted as general counselor and advocate for those most vulnerable. Also during law school, Dan served as Class President. After earning his JD, Pabon worked at a prestigious Denver-based law firm, where he built a practice focused on real estate and green building development. He became a member of the U.S. Green Building Council and was a strong advocate for green technologies and investing in Colorado's new energy economy. Pabon later gave up his career as a lawyer to become Northwest Denver's neighborhood attorney. His clients included neighborhood small business owners, residents, and non-profit organizations. Pabon worked on higher education issues as the vice-chair of the Auraria Higher Education Center Board; was a voice for senior citizens as a member of the Association for Senior Citizens Board; served as the Captain of the House District 4 Democrats; and worked for two months on the Obama-Biden Presidential transition team, where he helped draft the President's first executive order on transparency and ethics in government.  Legislative career 2010 campaign The campaign kicked off in Pabon's backyard with over 150 attendees.  The election and during the ensuing months, thousands of doors were knocked and phones calls were made. The effort paid off—in the general election, Dan won over seventy-five percent of the vote. Pabon's priorities include a healthy economy and job creation; affordable health care; transparent and accountable government; stronger protections for seniors; improved education; protection for women's reproductive rights; and full legal recognition of same-sex marriage.  2011 legislative session Representative Pabon was prime sponsor on five pieces of legislation and co-prime sponsor on several more.  2012 legislative session 2012 election In the 2012 General Election, Representative Pabon faced Republican challenger David W. Dobson.  Pabon was elected by a wide margin of 81% to 19%.  Legal issues Pabon was arrested for drunk driving on March 17, 2016 — St. Patrick's Day — in downtown Denver. During the course of the arrest, Pabon attempted to use his influence as an elected official to get out of the situation. He asked the Denver Police officer who pulled him over to call the city attorney or a police supervisor, but the officer refused. In July 2016, Pabon pleaded guilty  and received a light sentence. His sentence included a year of probation, attendance at a victim-impact panel, alcohol education/treatment, monitoring of sobriety, and a small fine.  References External links Dan Pabon on LinkedIn

Our Lady of Czestochowa Parish, which was designated for Polish immigrants at Dorchester Ave Dorchester, Massachusetts, was founded in 1893. This is one of Polish-American Roman Catholic parishes in New England in the Archdiocese of Boston.  History Among the immigrants of many ethnic groups, who come to the United States at the end of the nineteenth century, there was a significant number of Poles, who for various reasons left their homeland. Relatively many of them settled in Boston, especially in the southern part of the town of Dorchester. In 1893 to the Italian Sacred Heart Parish in Boston, arrived Polish priest, Fr. Jan M. Chmieliński The group selected their representatives, who went to Archbishop John J. Williams, asking him to authorize Fr. Chmieliński to organize a Polish congregation. Archbishop John J. Williams has appointed Fr. Chmieliński, the pastor of the Polish Catholics of Boston, Salem and elsewhere. In the meantime, a number of parish-related organizations were formed such as:  Polish National Alliance (pol. Związek Narodowy Polski w USA), Polish Women's Alliance of American - PWAA (pol. Związek Polek W Ameryce), Polish Roman Catholic Union of America (pol. Zjednoczenie Polskie Rzymsko-Katolickie), Polish Falcons (pol. Polskie Towarzystwo Gimnastyczne "Sokół"'), (pol.) Macierz Polska, (pol.) Towarzystwo Bratniej Pomocy Studentów (pot. Bratniak, St. Anne's Society (pol. Towarzystwo św. Anny), Polish American Citizen Club (pol. Polsko-Amerykański Klub Obywatelski), Polish Army Veterans Association in America (pol. Stowarzyszenie Weteranów Armii Polskiej w Ameryce (SWAP)), (pol.) Koło Dramatu i Śpiewu The architect for the 1903 building was T. Edward Sheehan of Dorchester, MA. Between 1906 and 1908 three Felician nuns from Buffalo were brought in to teach in the basement of the church. In 1911 a school was completed including a hall in the basement for parish functions.  By 1926 school enrollment increased from an initial 103 students to 642.  Eight nuns and two lay teachers were hired with approximately 60 students per class. After Fr. Chmielinski's death in 1937, Rev Bartula is appointed pastor followed by Rev. Naguszewski.  In 1940 Cardinal William O'Connell entrusts the parish to the Franciscan fathers.  Fr. Michael Cieslik. O.F.M. is the first Franciscan pastor and serves until 1942.  In 1942, Fr. Stephen Musielak, O.F.M. is appointed pastor and serves as pastor until 1957.  During that time, a club for teenagers and young adults was organized using the lower church hall for a meeting place. Fr. Musielak played a leading role in the settling of the post World War II wave of new Polish immigrants helping them locate family and friends in the US and finding lodging, securing employment, establishing residence and obtaining medical care.  From 1943 to 1951 post WWII immigrants and non-Polish families from Old Colony Housing Project create mixed school enrollment.  Classes are divided into two separate groups—1. exclusively in English and 2. Polish language as well as English.  In 1957 Fr. Angelus Zator is named pastor and services until 1966.  He establishes St. Mary's Drum and Bugle Corps as well as a Parent Teachers Association. In 1967 Rev. Edwin Agonis, OFM becomes pastor.  In 1968 the church celebrates its 75th Diamond Jubilee with a concelebrated Mass presided over by Cardinal Richard Cushing. In 1973 Rev Manual Wolkanowski OFM is appointed pastor through 1979.  Fire ravages the church causing disastrous damage.  Permission is granted by Cardinal Humberto Medeiros to repair and rebuild the church.  In 1978 Karol Jozef Wojtyla is elected Pope and takes the name, John Paul II.  In 1983, the church celebrates its 90th anniversary. In 1986, Cardinal Bernard Law during pilgrimage to the shrine in Kraków-Łagiewniki Poland, asked the Mother General of The Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy (pol. Zgromadzenie Sióstr Matki Bożej Miłosierdzia), Sr. Paulina Słomka, about the several sisters in Boston to establish a community of The Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy. The three sisters came to Boston on September 15, 1988, where they set up temporarily at the Convent in the Our Lady of Czestochowa Parish. It was the first international house founded outside of Poland. On October 10, 1993, the sisters moved to the current convent near St. Ann's Parish at the Neponset Ave. in Dorchester.  Pastors Fr. Jan M. Chmieliński (1893–1934) Fr. Peter Bartula (1935–1938), Fr. Edward B. Naguszewski (1936–1940). In 1940 Cardinal William Henry O'Connell entrusted the parish to the care of the Conventual Franciscans Fathers:  Fr. Michael Cieślik OFM Conv (1940–1942) Fr. Stephen Musielak OFM Conv (1942–1957) Fr. Angelus Zator OFM Conv (1957–1966) Fr. Alfred Stopyra OFM Conv (1966–1967) Fr. Edwin Agonis OFM Conv (1967–1973) Fr. Manual Wolkanowski OFM Conv (1973–1979) Fr. John Bambol OFM Conv (1979–1985) Fr. Andrew Skiba OFM Conv (1985–1991) Fr. Paul Miśkiewicz OFM Conv (1991–1994) In 1994 the parish was taken over by Conventual Franciscans from Polish Prowincja Matki Bożej Niepokalanej in Warszawa, Poland: Fr. Andrzej Sujka OFM Conv (1994–2000) Fr. Miroslaw Podymniak OFM Conv (2001–2006) Fr. Jerzy Auguścik OFM Conv (2006–2008) Fr. Andrzej Urbaniak OFM Conv (2008 - suspended in 2012) Fr. Jan Łempicki OFM Conv (2013–2015) Fr. Jerzy Żebrowski OFM Conv (2015–)  See also List of churches in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston  References Bibliography Our Lady of Czestochowa Parish; Sophie Kulik; Stanley Sadowski (1993). Our Lady of Czestochowa Parish - Centennial 1893-1993. Boston, Massachusetts: Our Lady of Czestochowa Parish. Kruszka, Waclaw (1998). A History of the Poles in America to 1908; Part III: Poles in the Eastern and Southern States. Washington, D.C.: The Catholic University of America Press. The Official Catholic Directory in USA  External links Our Lady Of Czestochowa - Diocesan information Our Lady Of Czestochowa - ParishesOnline.com Archdiocese of Boston School closing in DotNews (2008) Archived 2008-10-07 at the Wayback Machine The Polish Triangle in DotNews (2008) Archived 2011-07-16 at the Wayback Machine The Congregation of the Sisters of Our Lady of Mercy in Boston, Massachusetts Parish bulletins

George Neville, or Nevill, 4th and de jure 2nd Baron Bergavenny (c.1440 – 20 September 1492) was an English nobleman.  Career George Neville was the son of Edward Neville, 3rd Baron Bergavenny and Elizabeth Beauchamp. He was knighted by Edward IV on 9 May 1471, after fighting for the King at the Battle of Tewkesbury. He succeeded his father in 1476.  Marriages and issue Neville married firstly, before 1 May 1471, Margaret Fenn (d. 28 September 1485), the daughter and heiress of Hugh Fenn, by whom he had six sons and a daughter:  George Neville, 5th Baron Bergavenny (c. 1469 – c. 1535). John Neville. William Neville. Sir Edward Neville (1471–1538), who married, before 6 April 1529, Eleanor (née Windsor), widow of Ralph Scrope, 9th Baron Scrope (d. 17 September 1515), and daughter of Andrew Windsor, 1st Baron Windsor. Sir Thomas Neville (c. 1484–1542), Speaker of the House of Commons, who married firstly Katherine Dacre, and secondly Elizabeth Bryce. Sir Richard Neville (bef. 1485 – c. 1515). Elizabeth Neville, who married firstly Thomas Berkeley, esquire, of Avon, Hampshire, and secondly Richard Covert, esquire, of Slaugham, Sussex. He married secondly Elizabeth Brent. She was the widow successively of Richard Naylor, Sir Robert Basett, and John Stokker. There were no issue with his second marriage. Bergavenny was a captain in the English forces at Calais in 1490, and died in 1492.  Ancestry Notes References Cokayne, G. E. (1910). Gibbs, Vicary (ed.). The Complete Peerage of England, Scotland, Ireland, Great Britain and the United Kingdom, extant, extinct or dormant (Ab-Adam to Basing). Vol. 1 (2nd ed.). London: The St Catherine Press. Davies, Catharine (2004). "Neville, Sir Thomas (b. in or before 1484, d. 1542)". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/19964. (Subscription or UK public library membership required.) Richardson, Douglas (2011). Everingham, Kimball G. (ed.). Magna Carta Ancestry: A Study in Colonial and Medieval Families. Vol. I (2nd ed.). Salt Lake City. ISBN 978-1449966379.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

Major Mehitable E. Woods (nickname, "Auntie Woods"; also known as Mehitable Ellis Woods; September 28, 1813 – 1891) was a hero of the American Civil War and a pioneer of Jefferson County, Iowa. Gov. Samuel J. Kirkwood commissioned her as a Major.  Early life and education Mehitable (nickname, "Hetty") E. Owen was born on the banks of Lake Champlain, in Georgia, Vermont, September 28, 1813. She was the youngest of seven children (five surviving) born to Julius and Mehitable "Hettie" (Cassel) Owen. Her father was a native of Salisbury, Connecticut, and an uncle of Ethan Allen, of American Revolution fame. Her family was of Welsh origin and descended from one of two brothers who came to the United States during Colonial days, and who took an active part in the American Revolutionary War. Her grandfather, Owen, was a man of remarkable longevity, having lived more than 100 years. The father emigrated from Connecticut to Vermont, where he married Miss Cassel, a lady of French origin, her people having come to this country with Gen. LaFayette. She died in Vermont, and the husband married again. Following the example of his Revolutionary ancestors, he served in the War of 1812. Having removed westward to Harvard, Illinois, he there spent his last days, attaining almost the age of one hundred years. Woods received a very limited education. Her mother having died when she was quite small and her father marrying again, at the age of twelve years, she went to live in the home of a Mr. Mears, a Deacon in the Congregational church, thus to make a living with her own hands. Later, she went to the home of a sister, with whom she moved to New York City.  Career Marriages In the early 1830s, she married Howard Cooper, possibly in Bombay, New York but they divorced. About 1835, she joined a sister in Harvard, Illinois where she met and married Gilbert M. Fox, a native of Ohio. He was of English descent, and a carpenter by trade. In 1839, they started for Fairfield, Iowa, arriving on the day of the first election in this city, June 27. Mr. Fox purchased a lot and the following year, erected the house in which Mrs. Woods now lives, which was then known as the "big house." He was a first-class mechanic and erected many dwellings for the early settlers, besides assisting in the erection of the first courthouse. The first house, however, in which they lived was a primitive log dwelling with a stick chimney. Mr. Fox died in 1844. Three years later, she married Parish Ellis, an early settler, and also a mechanic. He died in 1851. In 1857, she wed Joel Woods, a tailor by trade. In 1858, he went to Colorado and engaged in mining, and so earned the esteem of his fellow miners that he was elected to the Legislature. While hunting in Arizona, he was shot and killed by mistake. His remains were buried at Ft. Whipple.  Civil War Though left alone in the world, Woods found a broad and useful field for her activities. The Civil War at length commenced and several severe battles were fought. The Iowa soldiers, sick and wounded, had been sent to the hospital at Keokuk, Iowa, and realizing how much they needed someone to take the place of a mother, she sacrificed her personal interests and gave her time and best efforts to the work of alleviating the sufferings of Iowa's soldiers, especially those from Jefferson County. Backed by the loyal women at home, she did a work that was remembered by the soldiers and spoken of at their reunions. On April 3, 1862, she took a quantity of sanitary supplies to distribute among the sick and wounded in the hospital at Keokuk, where she remained during the greater part of the summer to care for the afflicted troops. Having received three passes —one from Gen. Samuel Ryan Curtis, for the department of the Northwest; the second, from Gen. George Henry Thomas, and the third from the War Department, she made nine trips, taking cargoes that varied from 10 to 37 tons. In November, 1862, she started with the first supplies to Springfield, Missouri, but finding it impracticable for her to go farther, she placed her stores in charge of another at St. Louis and returned. In March 1863, she started with a large cargo for Missouri and ministered to the Third Iowa Cavalry, at Pilot Knob, and the Fourth Iowa Cavalry, at Helena, Arkansas. Soon afterward, she made her first trip down the Mississippi River into the heart of the Confederacy. Her plan was to travel incognito, letting her business be known only to the proper authorities. When asked where she was going, she would reply: "To see my sons, all of whom are in the army." Though she had no son, she was a mother to many, and the Iowa boys learned to call her by that name. To show how extensive was the field over which she operated, the dates of transportation to a number of the places visited include the following:   Little Rock, Arkansas, March 14, 1864 Chattanooga, Tennessee, May 16, 1864 Memphis, Tennessee, November 23, 1864 Milliken's Bend, Louisiana, in April, 1865 In the rear of the Vicksburg campaign, she was twice under fire, but escaped uninjured. Her last trip was made under the auspices of the United States Sanitary Commission, as a Santiary Commission agent. With 37 ton of supplies, she proceeded to New Orleans, there to take a boat for Baraucus Island, off the coast of Louisiana. A sanitary officer advised her not to venture, saying that she could not reach her destination and that the vessel in which she was going was unsafe. If she would turn over her stores to him, he would see to their proper distribution. Mrs. Woods insisted upon going, whereupon he became irate and said she should not, but she replied that she had a pass from the Government. The officer then went so far as to say that she could not go if she "had a pass from Heaven," but when she showed the document and said no power on earth should keep her from going, the argument was done. Arriving at the island, she found her assistance much needed. Several thousands of disabled soldiers were left there, while the able-bodied went to assist in the capture of Mobile, Alabama. Mrs. Woods remained a month, and on Christmas Day, had one of the most enjoyable meals ever served, consisting of the crackers and fresh butter taken from Iowa and the large fresh oysters gathered from the ocean.  Later life After the war, Woods led a quiet life, unconscious of the great honors and gratitude she had won. She was an honorary member of several societies including: Order of the Eastern Star, A. F. & A. H.; Rebecca Degree, I. O. O. F.; the Grand Army of the Republic (G.A.R.(; Agassiz Society, and the Alethean Literary Society, of Parsons College. The Fairfield Hose Company was named in her honor, and to its members, she gave a royal banquet each year. In 1886, she was a State delegate to the G.A.R.'s National Encampment at San Francisco. Unknown and unsolicited on her part, her friends secured for her a pension of US$25 per month. For 51 years, Woods was a resident of Fairfield, Iowa. She died in 1891. An 11 feet (3.4 m) high granite memorial is located at the Old Fairfield Cemetery where she is buried in Fairfield, Iowa.  References Attribution This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain:  Chapman Brothers (1890). Portrait and Biographical Album of Jefferson and Van Buren Counties, Iowa: Containing Full Page Portraits and Biographical Sketches of Prominent and Representative Citizens of the County, Together with Portraits and Biographies of All the Presidents of the United States and Governors of the State (Public domain ed.). Chicago: Lake City Publishing Company.  Bibliography Goff, Rory (11 June 2018). Major Mehitable Woods. Merrymeeting Archives LLC. ISBN 978-1-942745-11-2. State Historical Society of Iowa (1996). Iowa Heritage Illustrated. Vol. 77. State Historical Society of Iowa. Tinling, Marion (1986). Women remembered: a guide to landmarks of women's history in the United States. Greenwood Press. ISBN 978-0-313-23984-7.

Jiroft (Persian: جیرفت; [dʒiːˈɾoft]) is a city in the Central District of Jiroft County, Kerman province, Iran, serving as capital of both the county and the district. It is 230 kilometres (140 mi) south of the city of Kerman, and 1,375 kilometres (854 mi) south of Tehran along Road 91. In the past it was also called Sabzevaran, and on account of its being very fertile land it is famous as Hend-e-Koochak (the little India). The civilization found in Jiroft is one of the oldest human civilizations (according to some, the oldest) and the manuscripts obtained from this civilization are before the cuneiform discovered in Mesopotamia.  Demographics Population At the time of the 2006 National Census, the city's population was 95,031 in 19,926 households. The following census in 2011 counted 111,034 people in 25,589 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the city as 130,429 people in 39,855 households.  Geography Jiroft is in a vast plain, Halil River, on the southern outskirts of the Jebal Barez mountain chain, surrounded by two rivers. The mean elevation of the city is about 650 metres (2,130 ft) above sea level. The weather of the city is sweltering in summer – it is one of the hottest places in Iran – but temperatures are moderate in winter. There is a large dam (Jiroft Dam) upstream the city (40 km North-East of Jiroft) on the Halil River (Halilrood). It is under operation since 1992. Having a reservoir of more than 410 million cubic meters of water, irrigates 14200 hectares of the downstream and generates electricity.  Archaeology Jiroft culture A Jiroft culture has been postulated as an early Bronze Age (third millennium BC) archaeological culture, located in the territory of present-day Sistan and Kermān Provinces of Iran. The hypothesis is based on a collection of artifacts that were confiscated in Iran and accepted by many to have derived from the Jiroft area in south central Iran, reported by online Iranian news services, beginning in 2001. The proposed type site is Konar Sandal, near Jiroft in the Halil River area. Other significant sites associated with the culture include; Shahr-e Sukhteh (Burnt City), Tepe Bampur, Espiedej, Shahdad, Tal-i-Iblis and Tepe Yahya. The local language of Jiroft is Jirofti, also designated as Garmsiri. Garmsiri is a continuum of closely related dialects extending from the Halilrud river valley in the north down to the Strait of Hormuz in the south.  Recent finds A report from Iran states that the Halil Rud region near "Jiroft became famous between 2002/2003 [when news of] thousands of confiscated burial goods, especially elaborated carved chlorite vessels from the necropolises of Halil Rud" were released to public. Since February 2003, archaeologists have recovered a wealth of artifacts from the necropolis which they had named Mahtoutabad. For example, one grave contained "animal bones and food offerings, ceramics, and stone and copper items ... [indicating] a coherent cultural and chronological framework, around 2400–2200 BC". Two nearby mounds were also excavated, named Konar Sandal South and North. A 2013 research paper about the South mound states that work during 2006 to 2009 "revealed the remains of three successive settlements dating to the fourth millennium BC".  Excavation re-commenced in 2014 and revealed art works of "complexity and beauty" and artifacts that proved that the society had several writing systems. According to National Geographic, the content of the mounds is significant:They turned out to contain the remains of two major architectural complexes. The northern mound included a cult building, while in the southern one were the remains of a fortified citadel. At the foot of the mounds, buried under many feet of sediment, were the remains of smaller buildings. It’s believed that the two mounds had once formed part of a unified urban settlement that stretched many miles across the plateau ... [artifacts] "have been dated to between 2500 and 2200 B.C. [They are said to be evidence of] the "development of a complex civilization".  Transportation Jiroft is served by Jiroft Airport, located several kilometres to the northwest.  Gallery See also Dalfard  Media related to Jiroft at Wikimedia Commons  Iran portal  Notes References External links jiroft city website اطلاعات در مورد جیرفت  مستند تمدنی گم شده lost civilization documentary with Roger Matthews (archaeologist) on YouTube Konar Sandal archaeological site 3000 BC

Haim Beinart (1917–2010) was an Israeli historian and academic administrator. Originally from Russia, he was a professor of history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. He served as the dean of humanities at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev. He specialized in the history of Iberian Jews.  Biography Haim Beinart was born on November 14, 1917, in Pskow, Russia. In 1923, when he was six years old, his family settled in Riga. Beinart's parents were Hasidic Jews, and he attended a Jewish school. He graduated in 1934, and served in the Latvian Army until 1937. Beinart made aliyah to attend the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1937. While he was at university, he served as an intelligence officer in the Irgun. He also served in the 1948 War of Independence. He subsequently went on a trip to Spain, where he researched the history of Iberian Jews. He earned a PhD from the HUJ in 1955. With his wife Ruth, Beinart had four children: Yael, Yosef, Shelomo, and Hagit. He died on February 16, 2010, in Jerusalem, Israel.  Academic career Beinart became a lecturer at his alma mater, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, in 1958. He was promoted to senior lecturer in 1963, associate professor in 1966 and full professor in 1971. Meanwhile, he was appointed as the dean of humanities at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in 1969. He was also a visiting scholar at the Institute of Advanced Study from September 1986 to June 1987. He retired from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1988 as the Bernard Cherrick Professor Emeritus of History of the Jewish People. Beinart was an expert on Iberian Jews. He visited many towns in Spain to investigate their Jewish pasts. Beinart became a corresponding member of the Spanish Academy of Humanities in 1973 and a member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities in 1981. He was the inaugural recipient of the "Three Cultures Prize" from the Córdoba, Andalusia for his scholarship in 1986. He received an honorary doctorate from the Complutense University of Madrid in 1988. He was the recipient of the Israel Prize in 1991.  Published works Beinart, Haim, ed. (1974–1985). Records of the trials of the Spanish Inquisition in Ciudad Real. Jerusalem: Israel National Academy of Sciences and Humanities. ISBN 9789652080240. OCLC 1297217. Beinart, Haim (1980). Trujillo, a Jewish community in Extremadura on the Eve of the Expulsion from Spain. Jerusalem: Magnes Press. ISBN 9789652233493. OCLC 7248199. Beinart, Haim (1981). Conversos on Trial: The Inquisition in Ciudad Real. Jerusalem: Magnes Press. ISBN 9789652233844. OCLC 8766020. Beinart, Haim (1992). Atlas of Medieval Jewish History. Jerusalem: Carta. ISBN 9781441656179. OCLC 709715798. Beinart, Haim, ed. (1992). The Sephardi Legacy. Jerusalem: Magnes Press. ISBN 9789652237996. OCLC 28150442. Beinart, Haim (2002). The Expulsion of the Jews from Spain. Portland, Oregon: Littman Library of Jewish Civilization. ISBN 9781874774419. OCLC 470225028.   == References ==

Písečná (Czech: [ˈpiːsɛtʃnaː] ; until 1948 Sandhýbl; German: Sandhübel) is a municipality and village in Jeseník District in the Olomouc Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,000 inhabitants.  Administrative parts The village of Studený Zejf and the hamlet of Chebzí are administrative parts of Písečná.  Geography Písečná is located 6 kilometres (4 mi) northeast of Jeseník and 74 km (46 mi) north of Olomouc. It lies mostly in the Zlatohorská Highlands, but a small part of the municipal territory extends into the Golden Mountains. The highest point is at 729 m (2,392 ft) above sea level. The built-up area is situated in the valley of the Bělá River. The municipality is partially located in the Jeseníky Protected Landscape Area.  History A large village called Waltersdorf was located somewhere in the area of the today's municipality. It was first mentioned in 1284 and extinct before 1420. Today's Písečná is rather associated with another village or part of the village called Wüstekirche, which was first mentioned in 1373 and abandoned after 1443. A hundred years later, the area was resettled again and named Sandhübel. In the 16th century, the settlement was part of the Duchy of Nysa under Bohemian suzerainty. After the duchy's dissolution in 1850, it was incorporated directly into Bohemia. Following World War I, from 1918, it formed part of Czechoslovakia. During World War II, the German occupiers operated three forced labour subcamps of the Stalag VIII-B/344 prisoner-of-war camp in the village. The Allied POWs worked at the local brickworks, paper mill and quarry. In 1948, the municipality was renamed from Sandhýbl to its current name.  Demographics Transport The I/44 road (the section from Jeseník to the Czech-Polish border in Mikulovice) passes through the municipality. Písečná is located on the Krnov–Jeseník railway line.  Sights The main landmark of Písečná is the Church of Saint John the Baptist. A chapel, probably built in the 14th century, was rebuilt into the current Baroque church in 1753.  References External links  Official website

Jennie Lillis Baranczyk (born Jennie Marie Lillis; February 22, 1982) is an American basketball coach who is the current head coach of the University of Oklahoma women's basketball team.  Early life and education Born Jennie Marie Lillis in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Jennie Baranczyk was raised in Urbandale, Iowa and attended Dowling Catholic High School in nearby West Des Moines. A communications major, Baranczyk attended the University of Iowa and played at forward on the Iowa Hawkeyes women's basketball team under head coach Lisa Bluder from 2000 to 2004. As a senior, Baranczyk averaged 16.0 points and 6.2 rebounds and was a second-team all-Big Ten selection. She also earned second-team All-Big Ten honors in 2002 and first-team honors in 2003, in addition to being a Women's Basketball Coaches Association Region 6 honorable mention All-American, and was an academic All-Big Ten honoree from 2002 to 2004. Baranczyk won the Big Ten's Medal of Honor for academic and athletic excellence upon graduating from Iowa in 2004.  Iowa statistics Source  Coaching career Baranczyk began her coaching career in 2004 at Kansas State under Deb Patterson and helped Kansas State win the 2006 WNIT. From 2006 to 2010, Baranczyk was an assistant at Marquette under Terri Mitchell, including Marquette's 2008 WNIT title. At Marquette, Baranczyk also helped with recruiting, game scheduling, opponent scouting, and public relations. The first hire on the new coaching staff, Baranczyk then was an assistant at Colorado under Linda Lappe beginning on May 10, 2010.  Drake On April 17, 2012, Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa hired Baranczyk as head women's basketball coach. Drake went 11–20 in Baranczyk's first season and improved to 17–15 in the 2013–14 season. Baranczyk followed that season by leading Drake to a 20–11 record and the first round of the 2015 WNIT, the first postseason appearance in her tenure. In 2016, Drake improved to 23–10 and advanced to the second round of the WNIT. The 2016–17 season was the most successful in Baranczyk's tenure, as Drake reached a 28–5 record that included a program and Missouri Valley Conference (MVC) record 22-game winning streak and 18–0 MVC record, the first team in the MVC to go undefeated in conference play. Drake won its first conference title since 2008 and first outright title since 2000. Drake went on to win the MVC tournament for the first time since 2007 and qualified for the NCAA tournament.  Oklahoma Baranczyk was named head coach at Oklahoma on April 10, 2021, after nine years at Drake. In her first three years, she has brought Oklahoma into the second round of the NCAA Tournament each year.  Personal life Formerly Jennie Lillis, Baranczyk married Scott Baranczyk in 2009. They have three children.  Head coaching record   == References ==

The spokesperson of the Government (French: porte-parole du Gouvernment, in jargon PPG) is the minister in charge of the public relations of the Government of France. The position has existed since 1969, with interruptions. It is held either concurrently with a departmental or junior portfolio, or alone with a sinecure rank of junior minister. Its best-known duty is to hold a press conference after the weekly Council of Ministers. The present spokeswoman is Prisca Thevenot, appointed on 11 January 2024 in the Attal government. She is concurrently the deputy minister for democratic renewal.  History The position was created in 1969 by Jacques Chaban-Delmas, the first prime minister of Georges Pompidou; the first spokesman was Léo Hamon. As part of Chaban-Delmas's liberalization platform, it came in partial replacement to the earlier position of minister of information, who had supervised the broadcasting services under state monopoly, and whose duties were transferred to the Office of the Prime Minister and to the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. The Ministry of Information was restored by Pierre Messmer, Chaban-Delmas's successor, but eventually disbanded for good in 1974. Another new junior minister of 1969, Jacques Baumel, was put in charge of “public relations”, with an unclear distribution of responsibilities with Hamon. The position was discontinued in the next government, and the responsibilities of the spokesman were first defined in a decree of 24 July 1972 (“to report on the work of the Government and to provide information relating to the action of public authorities”). Léo Hamon was nicknamed “Léo Parleur” (“Loudspeaker”, a pun on “Léo speaker”). All governments since 1983 have had a spokesperson, except for the 1st Rocard government  (May–June 1988), in office fox six weeks between presidential and legislative elections, and for the Jospin government after a year (1998–2002). While a number of holders until the 1990s were experienced figures, younger politicians have since then been frequently chosen; Nicolas Sarkozy (1993–1995), Jean-François Copé (2002–2007), and Gabriel Attal (2020–2022) used their term to raise their profile by intervening on a number of topics. The president has at times had a spokesperson of his own, upgrading the position of press adviser; the most recent one was in 2017–2018. Some government departments have also appointed an official spokesperson.  Appointment and position The position of spokesperson is held either concurrently with a departmental or junior portfolio, or associated with a sinecure position of junior minister (deputy minister or secretary of state) under the prime minister. When junior to a departmental minister, the holder nonetheless reports directly to the prime minister with regard to the duties of spokesperson. As for all other members of the government, the appointment, and removal, is by the president on the proposal of the prime minister. The choice is based on personal considerations rather than determined by a concurrent portfolio: the position has been held several times by the minister in charge of the Budget or of relations with Parliament due to their transverse role, but also by the minister in charge of agriculture, culture, education, or women's rights. Jean-François Copé kept the position for five years while moving between three departments. The spokesperson has a specific private office, separate from one attached to an additional portfolio; it is located at the hôtel de Castries, in the 7th arrondissement of Paris. The office is supported by the Government Information Service (SIG), although the SIG remains under the authority of the prime minister.  Responsibilities The spokesperson has a dual role of “mouth and ear” of the Government, in charge not only of the usual responsibility of making public announcements and answering the news media, but also of staying attentive to public opinion and to report on it to the prime minister and other ministers. To that end, the holder is required to keep abreast of the ongoing issues dealt with by all government departments, and works with some of the close advisers to the president and prime minister. The spokesperson takes part to a number of meetings at which government policy and strategy are discussed and decided, and advises on how to promote them to the media and the general public. Any intervention is bound by prior statements made by the prime minister and by the responsible ministers. The spokesperson's best-known duty is to hold a press conference at the Élysée Palace, open to television cameras, after the meeting of the weekly Council of Ministers. Spokespersons also give regular interviews to explain and defend the government's handling of public affairs, either in general or on a specific current topic. Several former holders have commented on the uneasiness of the brief, such as François Baroin, who held it twice: “You can never be in a position to tell the whole truth. But I had made it my rule of never telling any sham. The job is after all about wooden language.” A 2021 book of interviews called it a “lightning rod”. In light of the work involved, the spokesperson always attends the Council of Ministers by right, while most junior ministers only do when exceptionally summoned. It is the only minister who may take notes, which is by tradition forbidden to the others, although the president and the two senior civil servants who attend without taking part may do so.  List See also Minister of Information (France) – Earlier equivalent position (1938–1974) Category:Political spokespersons – Foreign counterparts Public relations  Notes Citations References Primary sources Sources Le Bart, Christian (2022). "Porte-parole du gouvernement : un rôle impossible ?". In Hayat, Samuel; Kaciaf, Nicolas; Passard, Cédric (eds.). Le Porte-parole. Fondements et métamorphoses d'un rôle politique (in French). Villeneuve-d’Ascq: Presses universitaires du Septentrion. doi:10.4000/books.septentrion.131421. ISBN 978-2-7574-3714-8. Ollivier-Yaniv, Caroline (July–September 2019). "La communication gouvernementale, un ordre en négociation". Revue française d'administration publique (in French) (171). Strasbourg: École nationale d'administration: 669–680. doi:10.3917/rfap.171.0669. ISSN 0152-7401 – via Cairn.info. Saurat-Dubois, Anne (2021). Profession, paratonnerre (in French). Paris: L’Observatoire. ISBN 979-10-329-1753-4. – Based on interviews with former spokespersons.  External links Prisca Thevenot on the Government portal (in French) Press conferences by the spokesperson after Councils of Ministers on the Government portal (in French)

The 1941–42 St. Francis Terriers men's basketball team represented St. Francis College during the 1941–42 NCAA men's basketball season. The team was coached by future Basketball Hall of Famer Joseph Brennan, who was in his first year at the helm of the St. Francis Terriers. The team was not part of a conference and played as division I independents. The Terriers played their home games at the Bulter Street Gymnasium in their Cobble Hill, Brooklyn campus. The 1941–41 team finished with a .889 record at 16–2.  Roster Preseason Prior to the season starting former head coach Rody Cooney resigned. He recommended Joseph Brennan or Bob Griebe for the position. Both Joseph and Bob were former Brooklyn Visitations players. Then athletics director Brother Richard O.S.F. hired Joseph and Bob, with Joseph the head coach of the varsity team and Bob of the freshman team.  Regular season St. Francis won its first nine games and in that span was the highest scoring team in the New York Metropolitan area, averaging 60 points per game. Against La Salle, Jim Agoglia came close to setting an individual scoring record at Madison Square Garden by scoring 20 points. The La Salle game was at Madison Square Garden and the Explorers were the favorites to win, but the Terriers won 50–34. Their first loss of the season came against N.Y.U. at Madison Square Garden. The Terriers riding a 9-game win streak were the favorites to win but they lost a close game 37–40. The Terriers were leading 23–14 at the half. Coming off their first loss of the season the Terriers defeated Saint Peter's, and set a record in the Metropolitan area for their 85–29 victory. The Terriers then beat Brooklyn College and Manhattan College and were in the running for a National Invitation Tournament spot. The Terriers then lost to CCNY and were out of the running. After the CCNY loss, the Terriers defeated Hofstra and upset St. John's to finish the season at 16–2. Brooklyn sports writers were of the opinion that St. Francis should still qualify for the NIT considering the 16-2 record.  Schedule and results   == References ==

Bowi was the first EP released on Stiff Records. Recorded by Nick Lowe, who had also released the first Stiff single, the title and cover were intended as a humorous response to the David Bowie album Low, which had been released earlier in the year. Lowe decided that as Bowie had made an album with his name, but without the final e, he would reciprocate by making a record with Bowie's name, also lacking the final e.  Of the four tracks on the EP, only "Marie Provost" was initially re-released on an album, 1978's Jesus of Cool (issued as Pure Pop for Now People in the US), although all four tracks appear on the 2008 deluxe re-release edition of Jesus of Cool. The opening track "Born a Woman", written by Martha Sharp, had previously been performed by Sandy Posey "as a lament about the world's cruelty and inequality", whereas Lowe sings it with glee, unclear whether he is "decrying the information he's sharing or reveling in it". "Marie Provost" was written about the death of silent screen star Marie Prevost, whose body was discovered several days after she had died, alone and penniless in her Hollywood apartment. When she was found, she had bite marks on her legs, courtesy of her dog. That was the basis for the refrain, "She was a winner / that became the doggie's dinner", as well as other lines indicating that her pet dachshund had eaten her. In contrast to the sad content of the lyrics, which evoke the transitory nature of fame, the melody is deliberately "bouncy ... with chiming guitars". The cover photography was by Peter Gravelle.  Track listing All songs written by Nick Lowe, except "Born a Woman" by Martha Sharpe.  "Born a Woman" (originally performed by Sandy Posey) "Shake That Rat" "Marie Provost" "Endless Sleep"  References External links Bowi at Discogs (list of releases)

The Sun Belt Conference baseball tournament is the conference championship tournament in baseball for the Sun Belt Conference. The winner of the tournament receives the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA Division I baseball tournament. After Coastal Carolina University hosts the competition in Conway, South Carolina, in 2019, the tournament will move to a neutral site, Riverwalk Stadium in Montgomery, AL, from 2020 to 2024.  Tournament The Sun Belt Conference Baseball Tournament is a ten team double-elimination tournament held annually at various sites in the Sun Belt Conference region.  The bottom four seeds play a one round single elimination play in game. The six teams with the best conference record at the end of the regular season earn automatic berths in the tournament. After the play-in round, the remaining eight teams will play 2 four team double-elimination brackets with a single elimination championship game between the bracket winners. The division winner with the best conference record will be seeded #1 and will play the lowest remaining seed from the play-in round. The winner of the other division will receive the #2 seed (regardless of overall conference ranking) and will play the higher seeded play-in game winner. The champion of the competition receives an automatic bid to the NCAA Division I baseball tournament.  History The tournament started in 1978 as a four team double-elimination tournament. In 1979 the tournament expanded to include six teams but still remained double-elimination. The tournament expanded again in 1980 and included seven teams. In 1981 the conference was divided into divisions and the top two teams in each division made the tournament, returning it to a four team double-elimination format.  It remained that way through 1985. In 1986 the conference retained the division format but expanded the tournament to include the top four teams in each division, making the tournament an eight team double-elimination tournament. In 1987, the conference returned to the a four team double-elimination format. The tournament format was changed again in 1988 when it expanded to include the top three teams in each division, now making it a six team double-elimination tournament.  In 1995, the conference dropped the division format but kept the tournament format as a six team double-elimination tournament through 1998. In 1999, the tournament expanded to an eight team double-elimination format.  The format was a double bracket round robin in 2011-2012. In 2017, the Conference expanded the field to 10 teams, with the bottom four seeds playing a single-elimination play-in round before the standard eight team double-elimination bracket.  Champions By Year By school As of July 1, 2022, there are 14 schools in the conference that competes in baseball.  Current members Former members External links 2008 Sun Belt Conference Baseball Media Guide   == References ==

Norman Yoshio Mineta (Japanese: 峯田 良雄, November 12, 1931 – May 3, 2022) was an American politician from California. A member of the Democratic Party, Mineta served in the Cabinet of the United States for U.S. Presidents Bill Clinton, a Democrat, and George W. Bush, a Republican. Mineta serve as the mayor of San Jose from 1971 until 1975. He served as a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1975 until 1995. Mineta served as the United States Secretary of Commerce during the final months of Bill Clinton's presidency. He was the first person of East Asian descent to serve as a U.S. cabinet secretary. As the United States Secretary of Transportation for President Bush, Mineta was the only Democratic cabinet secretary in the Bush administration. He oversaw the creation of the Transportation Security Administration in response to the September 11 attacks that had occurred early in his tenure. On June 23, 2006, Mineta announced his resignation after more than five years as Secretary of Transportation, effective July 7, 2006, making him the longest-serving Secretary of Transportation in the department's history. A month later, the public relations firm Hill & Knowlton announced that Mineta would join it as a partner. In 2010, it was announced that Mineta would join L&L Energy as vice chairman. Mineta died on May 3, 2022, from a heart ailment in Edgewater, Maryland, at the age of 90.  Early life and education Mineta was born in San Jose, California, to Japanese immigrant parents Kunisaku Mineta and Kane Watanabe, who were barred from becoming American citizens at that time by the Immigration Act of 1924. During World War II, the Mineta family was interned for several years at Area 24, 7th Barrack, Unit B, in the Heart Mountain internment camp near Cody, Wyoming, along with thousands of other Japanese immigrants and Japanese Americans. Upon arrival to the camp, Mineta, a baseball fan, had his baseball bat confiscated by authorities because it could be used as a weapon. Many years later, after Mineta was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, a man sent Mineta a $1,500 bat that was once owned by Hank Aaron, which Mineta was forced to return as it violated the congressional ban on gifts valued over $250. Mineta said: "The damn government's taken my bat again." While detained in the camp, Mineta, a Boy Scout, met fellow scout Alan Simpson, a future U.S. senator from Wyoming, who often visited the Boy Scouts in the internment camp with his troop. The two became close friends and remained political allies throughout their lives. Mineta graduated from the University of California, Berkeley's School of Business Administration in 1953 with a degree in business administration. Upon graduation, Mineta joined the United States Army and served as an military intelligence officer in Japan and Korea. He then joined his father in the Mineta Insurance Agency.  Career Councilman and mayor of San Jose In 1967, Mineta was appointed to a vacant San Jose City Council seat by mayor Ron James. He was elected to office for the first time after completing a term in the city council. He was elected vice mayor by fellow councilors during that term. Mineta ran against 14 other candidates in the 1971 election to replace outgoing mayor Ron James. Mineta won every precinct in the election with over 60% of the total vote and became the 59th mayor of San Jose, the first Japanese-American mayor of a major American city. As mayor, Mineta ended the city's 20-year-old policy of rapid growth by annexation, creating development-free areas in East and South San Jose. His vice mayor Janet Gray Hayes succeeded him as mayor in 1975.  United States Congress In 1974, Mineta ran for the United States House of Representatives in what was then California's 13th congressional district. The district was previously the 10th District, represented by retiring 11-term Republican Charles Gubser. Mineta won the Democratic nomination and defeated State Assemblyman George W. Milias with 52 percent of the vote. He was reelected ten more times from this Silicon Valley-based district, which was renumbered as the 15th District in 1993, never dropping below 57 percent of the vote. Mineta co-founded the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus and served as its first chair. He served as chairman of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure between 1992 and 1994. He chaired the committee's aviation subcommittee between 1981 and 1988, and chaired its Surface Transportation subcommittee from 1989 to 1991. During his career in Congress, Mineta was a key author of the landmark Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. He pressed for more funding for the Federal Aviation Administration. Mineta was a driving force in the House of Representives behind the passage of H.R. 442, while Senator Spark Matsunaga (Hawaii) "almost single-handedly" got the legislation passed in the Senate of the 100th Congress  which became the Civil Liberties Act of 1988, a law that officially apologized for and redressed the injustices endured by Japanese Americans during World War II.  Private sector Mineta resigned his seat mid-term to accept a position with Lockheed Martin in 1995. He chaired the National Civil Aviation Review Commission, which in 1997 issued recommendations on minimizing traffic congestion and reducing the aviation accident rate. The Clinton administration adopted many of the commission's recommendations, including reform of the Federal Aviation Administration to enable it to perform more like a business. In 1999, Mineta received the L. Welch Pogue Award for Lifetime Achievement in Aviation. Mineta was appointed to the board of directors of Horizon Lines effective January 1, 2007. He had formerly served on the board of AECOM Technology Corporation and was on the board of SJW Corp.  Secretary of Commerce In 2000, President Bill Clinton nominated Mineta to serve as the U.S. Secretary of Commerce, making him the first Asian American to hold a presidential cabinet post. Clinton had wanted to nominate Mineta as U.S. Secretary of Transportation in 1992, but Mineta wanted to remain in Congress at that time.  Secretary of Transportation Mineta was appointed United States Secretary of Transportation by President George W. Bush in 2001, a post that he was offered eight years earlier by Bill Clinton. He was the only Democrat to have served in Bush's cabinet and the first Secretary of Transportation to have previously served in a cabinet position. He became the first Asian American to hold the position, and only the fourth person to be a member of the cabinet under two presidents from different political parties (after Edwin M. Stanton, Henry L. Stimson and James R. Schlesinger). In 2004, Mineta received the Tony Jannus Award for his distinguished contributions to commercial air transportation. Following Bush's reelection, Mineta was invited to continue in the position, and he did so until resigning in June 2006. When he stepped down on July 7, 2006, he was the longest-serving Secretary of Transportation since the position's inception in 1967.  September 11 attacks Mineta's testimony to the 9/11 Commission about his experience in the Presidential Emergency Operations Center with Vice President Cheney as American Airlines flight 77 approached the Pentagon was not included in the 9/11 Commission Report. In one colloquy testified by Mineta, the vice president refers to orders concerning the plane approaching the Pentagon:  There was a young man who had come in and said to the vice president, "The plane is 50 miles out. The plane is 30 miles out." And when it got down to, "The plane is 10 miles out," the young man also said to the vice president, "Do the orders still stand?" And the vice president turned and whipped his neck around and said, "Of course the orders still stand. Have you heard anything to the contrary?" Well, at the time I didn't know what all that meant. Commissioner Lee Hamilton queried if the order was to shoot down the plane, to which Mineta replied that he did not know that specifically. Mineta's testimony to the commission on Flight 77 differs somewhat significantly from the account provided in the January 22, 2002, edition of The Washington Post, as reported by Bob Woodward and Dan Balz in their series "10 Days in September".  9:32 a.m. The Vice President in Washington: Underground, in Touch With Bush Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta, summoned by the White House to the bunker, was on an open line to the Federal Aviation Administration operations center, monitoring Flight 77 as it hurtled toward Washington, with radar tracks coming every seven seconds. Reports came that the plane was 50 miles out, 30 miles out, 10 miles out—until word reached the bunker that there had been an explosion at the Pentagon. Mineta shouted into the phone to Monte Belger at the FAA: "Monte, bring all the planes down." It was an unprecedented order—there were 4,546 airplanes in the air at the time. Belger, the FAA's acting deputy administrator, amended Mineta's directive to take into account the authority vested in airline pilots. "We're bringing them down per pilot discretion," Belger told the secretary. "Fuck pilot discretion," Mineta yelled back. "Get those goddamn planes down."  Sitting at the other end of the table, Cheney snapped his head up, looked squarely at Mineta and nodded in agreement. This same article reports that the conversation between Cheney and the aide occurred at 9:55 a.m., about 30 minutes later than the time that Mineta had cited (9:26 a.m.) during his testimony to the 9/11 Commission. After hearing of Mineta's orders, Canadian transport minister David Collenette issued orders to ground all civilian aircraft traffic across Canada, resulting in Operation Yellow Ribbon. On September 21, 2001, Mineta sent a letter to all U.S. airlines forbidding them from practicing racial profiling or subjecting Middle Eastern or Muslim passengers to a heightened degree of pre-flight scrutiny. He stated that it was illegal for the airlines to discriminate against passengers based on race, color, national or ethnic origin, or religion. Subsequently, administrative enforcement actions were brought against three airlines based on alleged infringements of these rules, resulting in multimillion-dollar settlements. Mineta voiced his intention to "absolutely not" implement racial screenings in a 60 Minutes interview just after 9/11. He later recalled his decision "was the right thing [and] constitutional" based on his own experience as a member of those who had "lost the most basic human rights" as a result of the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II. The San Jose International Airport in San Jose was named after Mineta in November 2001 while he was serving as Secretary of Transportation. The Mineta Transportation Institute, located at San Jose State University, and portions of California State Highway 85 are named after him. White House Press Secretary Tony Snow announced on June 23, 2006, that Mineta would resign effective July 7, 2006, because "he wanted to." A spokesman said Mineta was "moving on to pursue other challenges." He left office as the longest-serving Secretary of Transportation in history.  After leaving the Bush administration Hill & Knowlton announced on July 10, 2006, that Mineta would join the firm as vice chairman, effective July 24, 2006. In 2005, Mineta received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement presented by Awards Council member and Google cofounder Larry Page. In October 2006, Mineta won the Wright Brothers Memorial Trophy. In December 2006, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom. In 2007, the Japanese government conferred upon him the Grand Cordon, Order of the Rising Sun. On February 4, 2008, the day before the closely contested California Democratic primary, Mineta endorsed Barack Obama. Beginning in the summer of 2008, Mineta began service as chairman of a panel of the National Academy of Public Administration overseeing a study of modernization efforts at the United States Coast Guard. Other notable members of the panel include former Office of Personnel Management director Janice Lachance and former NASA administrator Sean O'Keefe. In June 2010, Mineta was named co-chair of the Joint Ocean Commission Initiative. On August 10, 2010, he was named vice chair of L&L Energy, Inc., which was headquartered in Seattle and operated coal mines and other facilities related to coal production in China. Mineta was a recipient of the Chubb Fellowship at Yale University from 2015 to 2016.  Legacy The Mineta Transportation Institute was named after him. It was established by Congress in 1991 as a research institute focusing on issues related to intermodal surface transport in the United States. It is part of San Jose State University's Lucas Graduate School of Business in San Jose, California, and is currently directed by Karen Philbrick. In 2001, the San Jose International Airport adopted his name to honor him while he was serving as the United States Secretary of Transportation. In 2022, Congress renamed the Department of Transportation headquarters building as the William T. Coleman, Jr. and Norman Y. Mineta Federal Building, in honor of Mineta and another former Secretary, William Thaddeus Coleman Jr.  Personal life Mineta's first marriage was to May Hinoki, which lasted from 1961 to 1986. In 1991, Mineta married United Airlines flight attendant Danealia "Deni" Brantner. Mineta had two children from his first marriage and two stepchildren from his second marriage. He had 11 grandchildren. Mineta died on May 3, 2022, from a heart ailment in Edgewater, Maryland, at the age of 90.  See also List of United States political appointments across party lines List of Asian Americans and Pacific Islands Americans in the United States Congress  References External links  Biography at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress Appearances on C-SPAN The Mineta Legacy Project "Densho interview links: Norman Mineta". Retrieved June 13, 2021. Norman Mineta at Find a Grave

Perth Glory Football Club, an association football club based in East Perth, Perth, was founded in 1996. They became the first and only Western Australian member admitted into the A-League Men in 2005, having spent their first eight seasons participating in the National Soccer League. The club's first team has competed in nationally and internationally organised competitions, and all players who have played between 1 and 24 such matches, either as a member of the starting eleven or as a substitute, are listed below. Each player's details include the duration of his Perth Glory career, his typical playing position while with the club, and the number of games played and goals scored in all senior competitive matches. Since Perth Glory's first competitive match, over 200 players have made a competitive first-team appearance for the club. Many of these players have spent only a short period of their career at Perth Glory before seeking opportunities in other teams; some players had their careers cut short by injury, while others left for other reasons. Storm Roux only played one match for Perth Glory but has gone on to have a successful career at Central Coast Mariners and Melbourne Victory; he has also won 10 caps for the New Zealand national team.  Key The list is ordered first by date of debut, and then if necessary in alphabetical order. Appearances as a substitute are included. Statistics are correct up to and including the match played on 2 January 2023. Where a player left the club permanently after this date, his statistics are updated to his date of leaving.  Nationality Unless otherwise noted, the nationality of a player is determined by the country/countries which he has played for, or if said person has not played international football, their country of birth. Position Playing positions are listed according to the tactical formations that were employed at the time. Club career Club career is defined as the first and last calendar years in which the player appeared for the club in any of the competitions listed below. Total appearances and Total goals Total appearances and goals comprise those in the National Soccer League, A-League Men, Australia Cup, A-League Pre-Season Challenge Cup, AFC Champions League and the 2005 Australian Club World Championship Qualifying Tournament.  Players Players highlighted in bold are still actively playing at Perth Glory  See also List of Perth Glory FC (A-League Women) players  References External links Perth Glory official website

El Contrato (lit. "The Contract") is a Canadian documentary film, directed by Min Sook Lee and released in 2003. The film portrays the harsh living conditions of exploited migrant workers from Mexico who are working as farm labourers in Leamington, Ontario. The film premiered at the Bloor Cinema on September 24, 2003, but the farmers depicted in the film issued a SLAPP suit which delayed the film's wider release. After the lawsuit was cleared, the film received further film festival screenings in 2004, before being broadcast by TVOntario on January 12, 2005. Lee subsequently returned to the theme of migrant workers in her 2016 film Migrant Dreams, which centred on similar exploitation of Indonesian temporary migrant workers.  Critical response Frank Loreto of the Canadian Review of Materials wrote that "El Contrato is a hard-hitting film. A number of men are given the chance to send messages home, and it is clear that they are not happy being away. They miss their families and would much rather be home. They simply have no choice as there is no work at home and their families need the support that they are able to provide. One worker breaks into tears when he learns that his wife has delivered their baby girl prematurely. He had hoped to be home in time. Workers relate stories of abuses and mistreatment only when they are assured that their faces will not be filmed."  Awards The film was shortlisted for the Donald Brittain Award for Best Social or Political Documentary at the 20th Gemini Awards in 2005.  References External links El Contrato at IMDb

Terzan 5 is a heavily obscured globular cluster belonging to the bulge (the central star concentration) of the Milky Way galaxy. It was one of six globulars discovered by French astronomer Agop Terzan in 1968 and was initially labeled Terzan 11. The cluster was cataloged by the Two-Micron Sky Survey as IRC–20385. It is situated in the Sagittarius constellation in the direction of the Milky Way's center. Terzan 5 probably follows an unknown complicated orbit around the center of the galaxy, but currently it is moving towards the Sun with a speed of around 90 km/s.  Physical properties The absolute magnitude of Terzan 5 is at least MV=−7.5. Its bolometric luminosity is about 800,000 times that of the Sun, while its mass is about 2 million solar masses. The small core of Terzan 5—about 0.5 pc in size—has one of the highest star densities in the galaxy. Its volume mass density exceeds 106 M☉/pc3, while its volume luminosity density exceeds 105.5 L☉/pc3, where M☉ and L☉ are the Sun's mass and luminosity, respectively. The cluster also has one of the highest metallicities among the Milky Way's globular clusters—[Fe/H]=−0.21. In 2009 it was discovered that Terzan 5 consists of at least two generations of stars with ages of 12 and 4.5 billion years and slightly different metallicities, possibly indicating that it is the core of a disrupted dwarf galaxy, not a true globular cluster. There are only a few other globular clusters in the Milky Way that contain stars with different ages. Among them are M54,  Omega Centauri and Liller 1. The latter, like Terzan 5, is thought to be a fossil fragment from the assembly of the galactic bulge. The cluster also contains around 1300 core helium burning horizontal branch (HB) stars, including at least one RR Lyrae variable star.  Pulsars and X-ray sources Terzan 5 is known to contain 49 millisecond radio pulsars as of December 2023, the largest MSP population among all globular clusters in the Galaxy; their true number may be as high as 200. The first such object, PSR B1744-24A, discovered in 1990, has the period of 11.56 ms. The population of pulsars inside Terzan 5 includes PSR J1748–2446ad, the fastest known millisecond pulsar, which is spinning at 716 Hz (the rotation period is 1.40 ms). Terzan 5 also contains an X-ray burster, discovered in 1980, known as Terzan 5 or XB 1745-25. It also contains around 50 weaker X-ray sources, many of which are likely Low-mass X-ray binaries (LMXB) or cataclysmic variables. The large number of X-ray sources and millisecond pulsars may be a direct consequence of the high density of the cluster's core, which leads to a high rate of star collisions, and to formation of close binaries, including binary systems which contain a neutron star. In addition to discrete X-ray sources Terzan 5 produces a diffuse non-thermal X-ray emission and high (a few GeV) and ultra-high (0.5–24 TeV) energy gamma-rays. The high energy gamma rays probably originate in the magnetosphere of abundant millisecond pulsars, while ultra-high energy gamma rays likely result from the inverse Compton scattering by the relativistic electron emitted by the pulsars off the cosmic microwave background radiation.  Gallery Notes   == References ==

Rudolf Paul Joachim Kochendörffer (21 November 1911 in Pankow – 23 August 1980 in Dortmund) was a German mathematician who was a Professor of mathematics in the University of Rostock specialising in algebra, Group theory and theory of finite groups and their representation. During World War II, Kochendörffer worked as a  mathematical cryptanalyst in the mathematical referat of Inspectorate 7/IV, that would later become part of Referat I of Group IV of the General der Nachrichtenaufklärung (abbr. GDNA), the signals intelligence agency of the Wehrmacht and was known as a cryptographic tester of the Enigma cipher machine. Kochendörffer was a Member of the Scientific Advisory Council for Mathematics at the State Secretariat for the Higher and Specialist Schools of the GDR, a staff member of Mathematical Reviews and collaborated with the Zentralblatt MATH  Personal life Rudolf Kochendörffers father, Albert Kochendörffer(1877-1958) was a lending bookseller (German: Leihbuchhändler). His mother was Bertha Kochendörffer. In 1930, Kochendörffer completed his Abitur. Kochendörffer subsequently studied at the Technical University of Berlin from 1930 to 1936 on the study of mathematics, physics and philosophy. In 1936, he was promoted to Dr Phil, with a doctoral thesis titled: Investigations on a presumption of W. Burnside (German:Untersuchungen über eine Vermutung von W. Burnside) (Burnside's theorem), whose doctorals advisors where among others, Ludwig Bieberbach, Issai Schur and Erhard Schmidt, but was forced to resign as a Jew in 1935. During 1938/9 he was an assistant at the University of Göttingen. From 1939 to 1942 he was an assistant to the cryptanalysis department of the German Foreign Office (German: Auswärtiges Amt) and from 1942-1945 he was employed as a mathematical cryptanalysis in the OKW/Chi and the GDNA. from 1946 to 1948 he worked as a Senior assistant at the Mathematical Institute of the Humboldt University of Berlin. In 1948, Kochendörffer  habilitated in the subjects of mathematics in Berlin, and was promoted to full professor, therein working as a lecturer. He then found position for a year as Professor with full lecturing for mathematics at the  University of Greifswald. At the start of the new decade in 1950, Kochendörffer became a Professor of Mathematics at the University of Rostock, a position he held until 1966. Kochendörffer specialized in group theory. He was also known for writing various algebra textbooks. Between 1967-1970 Rudolf Kochendörffer was Visiting Professor of Mathematics, Faculty of Natural Sciences at the Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, and at the University of Tasmania. Between 1970-1977, Kochendörffer finished his career as Professor of Mathematics at the Technical University of Dortmund. He was a member of the Mathematische Gesellschaft der DDR, German Mathematical Society and the member of Gesellschaft für Angewandte Mathematik und Mechanik.  Honours In 1960, he was awarded the Patriotic Order of Merit in Bronze, which was recognized in 1967. In 1963 he received the National Prize of the German Democratic Republic, National Prize III. for science and technology.  Publications Einführung in die Algebra. Berlin 1955, 4. Aufl. 1974. (English Edition: Introduction to algebra. Groningen 1972). Determinants and matrices (German:Determinanten und Matrizen). Leipzig 1957, 5. Aufl. 1967. (License Issue Stuttgart 1970). Lehrbuch der Gruppentheorie. Unter besonderer Berücksichtigung der endlichen Gruppen. Leipzig 1966. (English Edition: Textbook of the group theory with special consideration of the finite groups. Leipzig 1966, English Group Theory, McGraw Hill 1970). On supplements of finite groups. Groningen 1963.   == References ==

Mothman, in West Virginian folklore, is a humanoid creature reportedly seen in the Point Pleasant area from November 15, 1966, to December 15, 1967. The first newspaper report was published in the Point Pleasant Register, dated November 16, 1966, titled "Couples See Man-Sized Bird ... Creature ... Something". The national press soon picked up the reports and helped spread the story across the United States. The source of the legend is believed to have originated from sightings of out-of-migration sandhill cranes or herons.  The creature was introduced to a wider audience by Gray Barker in 1970, and was later popularized by John Keel in his 1975 book The Mothman Prophecies, claiming that there were paranormal events related to the sightings, and a connection to the collapse of the Silver Bridge. The book was later adapted into a 2002 film, starring Richard Gere. An annual festival in Point Pleasant is devoted to the Mothman legend.  History On November 15, 1966, two young couples from Point Pleasant—Roger and Linda Scarberry, and Steve and Mary Mallette—told police they had seen a large black creature whose eyes "glowed red", standing at the side of the road near "the TNT area", the site of a former World War II munitions plant. Linda Scarberry described it as a 'slender, muscular man' about seven feet tall with white wings. However, she was unable to discern its face due to the hypnotic effect of its eyes. Distressed, the witnesses sped away, reporting that the creature flew after their car, making a screeching sound. It pursued them as far as Point Pleasant city limits.  Over the next few days, more people reported similar sightings after local newspapers covered it. Two volunteer firemen who saw it said it was a "large bird with red eyes". Mason County Sheriff George Johnson believed the sightings were due to an unusually large heron he termed a "shitepoke". Contractor Newell Partridge told Johnson that when he aimed a flashlight at a creature in a nearby field, its eyes glowed "like bicycle reflectors". Additionally, he blamed buzzing noises from his television set and the disappearance of his German Shepherd dog on the creature. Wildlife biologist Robert L. Smith at West Virginia University told reporters that descriptions and sightings fit the sandhill crane, a large American crane almost as tall as a man with a seven-foot wingspan and reddish coloring around its eyes. The bird may have wandered out of its migration route, and therefore was unrecognized at first because it was not native to this region.  Due to the popularity of the Batman TV series at the time, the fictional superhero Batman and his rogues gallery were prominently featured in the public eye. While the villain Killer Moth did not appear in the show, the comic book influence of both him and Batman is believed by some to have influenced the coinage of the name "Mothman" in the local newspapers. Following the December 15, 1967 collapse of the Silver Bridge and the death of 46 people, the incident gave rise to the legend and connected the Mothman sightings to the bridge collapse. According to Georgian newspaper Svobodnaya Gruziya, Russian UFOlogists claim that Mothman sightings in Moscow foreshadowed the 1999 Russian apartment bombings. The Mothman Prophecies (2002) is a major motion picture, loosely based on the 1975 book of the same name by John Keel. In 2016, WCHS-TV published a photo purported to be of Mothman taken by an anonymous man while driving on Route 2 in Mason County. Science writer Sharon A. Hill proposed that the photo showed "a bird, perhaps an owl, carrying a frog or snake away" and wrote that "there is zero reason to suspect it is the Mothman as described in legend. There are too many far more reasonable explanations."  Analysis Folklorist Jan Harold Brunvand notes that Mothman has been widely covered in popular press, with some claiming sightings connected with UFOs, and others suggesting that a military storage site was Mothman's "home". Brunvand notes that the recountings of the 1966–67 Mothman reports usually state that at least 100 people saw Mothman with many more "afraid to report their sightings." However, he points out that these written sources for such stories consisted of children's books or sensationalized or undocumented accounts that fail to quote identifiable persons. Brunvand found elements in common among many Mothman reports and much older folk tales, suggesting that something real may have triggered the scares and became woven with existing folklore. He also records anecdotal tales of Mothman supposedly attacking the roofs of parked cars occupied by teenagers. Conversely, Joe Nickell says that a number of hoaxes followed the publicity generated by the original reports, such as a group of construction workers who tied flashlights to helium balloons. Nickell attributes the Mothman stories to sightings of barred owls, suggesting that the Mothman's "glowing eyes" were actually red-eye effect caused from the reflection of light from flashlights or other bright light sources. Benjamin Radford points out that the only report of glowing "red eyes," was secondhand, that of Shirley Hensley quoting her father. One of the prevailing hypotheses associated with the Mothman at the time of the original sightings was that it was a misidentified sandhill crane, due primarily to the size of the bird as well as the "reddish flesh" around the crane's eyes. Daniel A. Reed examined the migration patterns and historically reported sightings of Sand Hill Cranes in the area of Point Pleasant, West Virginia and proposed that, in cases where eyeshine was not noted, it was statistically more likely that witnesses were seeing and misidentifying a Great Blue Heron instead. According to University of Chicago psychologist David A. Gallo, "55 sightings of Mothman in Chicago during 2017" published on the website of self-described Fortean researcher Lon Strickler are "a selective sample". Gallo explains that "he's not sampling random people and asking if they saw the Mothman – he's just counting the number of people that voluntarily came forward to report a sighting." According to Gallo, "people more likely to visit a paranormal-centric website like Strickler's might also be more inclined to believe in, and therefore witness the existence of, a 'Mothman'." Some pseudoscience adherents (such as ufologists, paranormal authors, and cryptozoologists) suggest the Mothman could be an alien, a supernatural manifestation, or a previously unknown species of animal. In his 1975 book, Keel claimed that Point Pleasant residents experienced precognitions including premonitions of the collapse of the Silver Bridge, UFO sightings, visits from inhuman or threatening men in black, and other phenomena.  Festival and statues Point Pleasant held its first Annual Mothman Festival in 2002. The Mothman Festival began after brainstorming creative ways to attract visitors to Point Pleasant. The group organizing the event chose the Mothman to be the center of the festival due to its uniqueness, and as a way to celebrate its local legacy in the town. According to the event organizer Jeff Wamsley, the average attendance for the Mothman Festival is an estimated 10–12 thousand people per year. A 12-foot-tall metallic statue of the creature, created by artist and sculptor Bob Roach, was unveiled in 2003. The Mothman Museum and Research Center opened in 2005. The festival is held on the third weekend of every September, hosting guest speakers, vendor exhibits, pancake-eating contests, and hayride tours of locally notable areas.  In popular culture Derived from Keel's story The Mothman Prophecies (1975) – John Keel's 1975 book is largely responsible for popularizing the legend. The Mothman Prophecies (2002) – A film inspired by Keel's book. Mothman (2010) – A Syfy TV movie. The Mothman of Point Pleasant (2017) – A documentary. The Mothman Menace (2023) – A fictionalized account of the Silver Bridge collapse and other historical events from 1960s' Point Pleasant, WV. Craig McDonald, author.  Other appearances Watchmen (1986) – Features a minor superhero known as Mothman. Megami Tensei (1995) – Mothman regularly appears as a recruit-able demon in the Megami Tensei series of games, first appearing in Shin Megami Tensei: Devil Summoner. Detour (1997) – An episode of The X-Files in which Agent Mulder hypothesises that the monster could be related to the Mothman of Point Pleasant. The Perhapanauts (2005) – A Mothman named Karl appears as a supporting protagonist. Tomodachi Life (2014) – A interior named Mystery has a statue of Mothman in it. The Adventure Zone: Amnesty (2018) – The Mothman Indrid Cold is revealed to be one of several alien beings crossing into the West Virginia portion of the National Radio Quiet Zone from another world. Fallout 76 (2018) – Multiple Mothmen appear as some of the many cryptids inhabiting a post-apocalyptic West Virginia. Inside Job (2021) – A humorous version of the creature known as "Elliot Mothman", appears. He works for a shadowy organisation known as Cognito, Inc., specifically as the head of HR. The Adventure Zone: Dust season two (2022) – Indrid Cold returns as a player character, portrayed by Griffin McElroy.  See also Apparitional experience Belled buzzard Bogeyman Flatwoods monster Goatman (urban legend) Owlman Popobawa Snallygaster Spring-heeled Jack  References External links  Media related to Mothman at Wikimedia Commons Dunning, Brian (June 23, 2009). "Skeptoid #159: The Mothman Cometh". Skeptoid.

Love and Marriage is an American sitcom that aired on NBC during the 1959–60 television season. The series stars William Demarest as the owner of a struggling music publishing company.  Synopsis Bill Harris is a widower who owns the Harris Music Publishing Company in Los Angeles, California. A longtime music publisher and a lover of old-fashioned, melodious music, he hates the rock and roll music that has become popular during the latter half of the 1950s and rejects most of the popular songs submitted to him. As a result, his company is nearly bankrupt, and stress over its financial problems is affecting his health. Bill′s daughter, Pat Baker, wants to keep an eye on him as well as save the family business by convincing Bill that he is wrong about rock and roll and should publish it, so she maneuvers him into taking her on as a partner in the company. She then tries to sign rock and roll musicians with the company and get Bill to publish their music. Bill shares an apartment with Pat, her husband Steve Baker, who is a lawyer, and their daughters Susan and Jennie. Steve is more progressive than Bill and constantly irritates him, and Susan has to mediate the frequent disputes between them. At the publishing company, Sophie is the secretary and Stubby Wilson is the firm′s song promoter. Stubby performs most of the songs submitted to the firm and is prone to reminiscing about the "good old days" in the music publishing business. Late in 1959, the Bakers hire a Chinese woman, Han Cho-Yee. as their housekeeper, and a Chinese songwriter, Jimmy Chang, falls in love with her. Jimmy faces the challenge of dealing with Han′s father, Mr. Cho-Yee, a strict man who has set up an arranged marriage to someone else for Han.  Cast William Demarest...William "Bill" Harris Jeanne Bal...Patricia "Pat" Baker Murray Hamilton...Steve Baker Kay Armen...Sophie Stubby Kaye...Stubby Wilson Susan Reilly...Susan Baker Jennie Lynn...Jennie Baker Robert Kino...Jimmy Chang Judy Dan...Han Cho-Yee Benson Fong...Mr. Cho-Yee  Production Love and Marriage was a production of Louis F. Edelman Enterprises. P. J. Wolfson produced the show. Directors included Bob Sweeney and Norman Abbott. Mel Shavelson was one of the writers. Noxema Cream sponsored alternate weeks, with the remaining episodes being sustaining, Love and Marriage replaced The Restless Gun. The theme song was an instrumental of "Love and Marriage."  Broadcast history Love and Marriage  premiered on NBC on September 21, 1959. It lasted only half a season, and only 18 episodes were broadcast, the last of them on January 25, 1960. Another eight episodes never aired. The show was broadcast at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Mondays throughout its run.  Episodes SOURCE  NOTE: Episode lists for Love and Marriage place the episode "The Baby Sitter" on January 11, 1960, and the episode "Jealousy" among the show′s unaired episodes. At least one contemporary newspaper listing indicates that "The Baby Sitter" was broadcast on January 11, 1960. However, at least three contemporary newspaper listings indicate that "Jealousy" aired on January 11, 1960.  References External links Love and Marriage at IMDb  Love and Marriage opening credits on YouTube Love and Marriage alternative opening credits on YouTube Love and Marriage episode "Second Honeymoon" opening and closing credits on YouTube

General Lance W. Lord (born July 12, 1946) is a retired four-star general in the United States Air Force who served as Commander of Air Force Space Command at Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado.  Military career Lord was educated at Castle Heights Military Academy and Otterbein College, where he earned a bachelor's degree and graduated from the ROTC program. He later earned a master's degree from the University of North Dakota. After entering the Air Force in 1969, he served four years of Minuteman II ICBM alert duty and then completed a series of Air Staff and joint duty assignments in strategic missiles. He directed the Ground-Launched Cruise Missile Program Management Office in Europe. He was a Military Assistant to the Director of Net Assessment in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and represented the Air Force as a research associate in international security affairs at Ohio State University. Lord commanded two ICBM wings in Wyoming and North Dakota. In California he commanded a space wing responsible for satellite launch and ballistic missile test launch operations. He served as Director of Plans and as Vice Commander for Headquarters Air Force Space Command. The general led Air Force education and training as Commandant of Squadron Officer School, Commander of Second Air Force, Commander of Air University and Director of Education for Air Education and Training Command. Prior to assuming command of Space Command, he was the Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force. He retired on April 1, 2006. In 2004 while serving as Air Force Space Command Commander, Lord announced the introduction of a new space badge. The new combined Space and Missile Operations Badge, informally known as "spings" (SPace wINGS), "Space Boomerang", or "Space Blade" replaced the Missile Badge for operators. In addition, the new badge is no longer limited to pure space and missile operators/maintainers, but is also awarded to 61XX, 62XX and 63XX (officer) AFSCs who have performed space/ICBM acquisition duties, even if they were non-operational in nature.  Assignments January 1969 – February 1969, student, ICBM operational readiness training, Chanute AFB, Illinois February 1969 – May 1969, student, combat crew missile training, Vandenberg AFB, California May 1969 – June 1973, Minuteman II combat crewmember, 321st Strategic Missile Wing, Grand Forks AFB, North Dakota June 1973 – September 1975, Minuteman II evaluation member, 3901st Strategic Missile Evaluation Squadron, Vandenberg AFB, California September 1975 – August 1976, missile operations staff officer, Air Staff Training Program, Directorate of Operations, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C. August 1976 – July 1978, missile operations staff officer, Strategic Division, Directorate of Operations and Readiness, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C. July 1978 – July 1979, student, Air Command and Staff College, Maxwell AFB, Alabama July 1979 – July 1982, military assistant to the Director for Net Assessment, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Washington, D.C. July 1982 – July 1983, Air Force research associate, Program of International Security and Military Affairs, Ohio State University, Columbus July 1983 – August 1984, Commander, 10th Strategic Missile Squadron, Malmstrom AFB, Montana August 1984 – June 1985, Deputy Commander, 341st Combat Support Group, Malmstrom AFB, Montana July 1985 – July 1987, Director, Ground-Launched Cruise Missile Program Management Office, Deputy Chief of Staff for Plans and Programs, Headquarters U.S. Air Forces in Europe, Ramstein Air Base, West Germany July 1987 – June 1988, student, Air War College, Maxwell AFB, Alabama June 1988 – February 1989, Vice Commander, 351st Strategic Missile Wing, Whiteman AFB, Missouri February 1989 – May 1990, Commander, 321st Strategic Missile Wing, Grand Forks AFB, North Dakota June 1990 – August 1992, Commandant, Squadron Officer School, Maxwell AFB, Alabama August 1992 – August 1993, Commander, 90th Missile Wing, Francis E. Warren AFB, Wyoming August 1993 – August 1995, Commander, 30th Space Wing and Western Range, Vandenberg Air Force Base, California August 1995 – August 1996, Director of Plans, Headquarters Air Force Space Command, Peterson AFB, Colorado August 1996 – August 1997, Commander, 2nd Air Force, Keesler AFB, Mississippi August 1997 – June 1999, Vice Commander, Headquarters Air Force Space Command, Peterson AFB, Colorado June 1999 – May 2001, Commander, Air University, Maxwell AFB, Alabama May 2001 – April 2002, Assistant Vice Chief of Staff, Headquarters U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C. April 2002 – April 2006, Commander, Air Force Space Command, Peterson AFB, Colorado  Awards and decorations Other achievements 1988 Secretary of the Air Force Leadership Award, Air War College, Maxwell AFB, Alabama 1999 Gen. Thomas D. White Space Trophy, Air Force Association 2003 Gen. Bernard A. Schriever Fellow Award, Air Force Association, Northern Utah Chapter 2003 Distinguished Achievement Award, Air Force Association, Tennessee Ernie Ford Chapter 2004 Gen. James V. Hartinger Award, National Defense Industrial Association, Rocky Mountain Chapter 2004 Gen. Jimmy Doolittle Fellow Award, Air Force Association, Iron Gate Chapter 2004 Gen. Bernard A. Schriever Award, Air Force Association, Los Angeles Chapter 2005 Space Champion Award, National Defense Industrial Association 2006 Order of the Sword, Air Force Space Command  Effective dates of promotion Second Lieutenant December 4, 1968 First Lieutenant July 28, 1970 Captain January 28, 1972 Major September 1, 1978 Lieutenant Colonel December 1, 1982 Colonel December 1, 1985 Brigadier General September 1, 1992 Major General March 14, 1996 Lieutenant General September 1, 1997 General April 19, 2002  References  This article incorporates public domain material from Biographies: General Lance W. Lord. United States Air Force.

The Terni–Sulmona railway is a regional railway line in central Italy, managed by Rete Ferroviaria Italiana. It links three regions, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo, and three provincial capitals: Terni, Rieti and L'Aquila. Together with the Sulmona–Isernia railway it forms a north–south corridor through the Apennines in central Italy. Its route is the result of two unfinished railways that had to meet in Rieti: the Pescara–L'Aquila–Rome line, and the Terni–Avezzano–Roccasecca line.  History After the Italian unification and the widespread start of railway constructions, many talks started about how to link the Abruzzo region to its new capital, Rome. It was decided that the railway would start from Pescara, reach Sulmona and L'Aquila, then cross the Apennine Mountains at the Sella di Corno pass and then reach Rieti, where the line had to continue towards Rome. Rieti also should have been the starting point of a branch to Avezzano, that – together with the Avezzano–Roccasecca railway – would have linked Abruzzo with the railway to Naples, which was Abruzzo's capital under the Kingdom of Two Sicilies. However the unsolved Roman question threatened to interrupt railway service between the then-capital Florence and the then-biggest city Naples, and to protect its military and strategic interests the Italian government urged the construction of an alternative route from Florence to Naples that didn't enter the Papal States, which could be created with a new railway between Terni and Roccasecca, passing through Rieti and Avezzano. So it was decided that the Pescara–Rieti line should have continued towards Terni, and not towards Rome as per initial project. Construction was started in 1871 by Società per le Strade Ferrate Meridionali in Pescara; by 1873 the line was completed to Sulmona and by 1875 it was completed to L'Aquila. Then the work stopped because of the building company's perplexity: even if it was possible to reach Rome from Terni, via the Ancona–Orte railway, Strade Ferrate Meridionali thought that a railway from Terni to Rieti would be less useful for the needs of the company and of Abruzzese people than a railway from Rome to Rieti.  An agreement was reached in 1879, when Public Works Ministry Baccarini granted Strade Ferrate Meridionali to build another railway to satisfy the need of connecting Abruzzo to Rome (the Rome-Sulmona railway) but tied the company to finish the former line till Terni. Work restarted and the line was soon completed, even if the most mountainous region of the track was involved (the Apennine Mountains that divide Abruzzo and Lazio, and the drop of altitude near the Marmore falls). The Pescara-Sulmona-Terni line opened on October 30, 1883. The line's importance as the primary means of transport between Abruzzo and Rome, however, lasted five years: in 1888, the Rome-Sulmona railway was opened and all trains from Abruzzo's Adriatic shore to Rome were diverted on the newer, shorter line. As most trains starting from Sulmona were travelling from Pescara to Rome, except for some going to L'Aquila and Terni, the first part of the original Pescara–Terni line was officially detached and merged with the newer Rome-Sulmona; so the Roma-Sulmona line became the Roma-Sulmona-Pescara line, while the Pescara-Sulmona-Terni line became the Sulmona-Terni line. At the start of 20th century the Avezzano–Roccasecca railway was built, but with the capture of Rome the government's strategic purposes ceased, so the Rieti–Avezzano railway was never built and the Terni–Roccasecca route remained unfinished.  On October 3, 1936, a severe accident happened near Contigliano, in which two trains collided head-on, resulting in several deaths and many injured, among which the entire L'Aquila Calcio football team. Many players were killed and most couldn't play football again; the team was relegated and never recovered its lost position. In the 1930s steam locomotives were dismissed and faster ALn 56 and ALn 556 diesel multiple units (DMU) were introduced; in the 1980s these were replaced with ALn 668 3300 series. In 1905 all Italian railways were nationalized and Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane took control of the Terni–Sulmona railway. In 2008 Trenitalia, the passenger division of Ferrovie dello Stato, put out passenger services on the Terni–L'Aquila route entrusting Ferrovia Centrale Umbra for the service (now Umbria Mobilità, part of the Busitalia group). Ferrovia Centrale Umbra operates its services using FCU ALn 776 diesel multiple units; Trenitalia still operates the L'Aquila–Sulmona route, and in 2016 it introduced the new Pesa Atribo "Swing" DMUs replacing ALn 668s.  Features The railway line is graded by Rete Ferroviaria Italiana as a secondary, low-traffic line. It is a single-track railway for its entire extension, and it is not electrified, so it is run with diesel multiple units: currently FCU ALn 776 (on the Terni-L'Aquila route) and Pesa Atribo "Swing" (on the L'Aquila-Sulmona route). The line features some of the most steep climbs of the standard gauge, non-rack Italian rail system: from the Antrodoco-Borgo Velino station until the Sassa-Tornimparte station, where the line crosses the Apennine Mountains that divide Lazio from Abruzzo, it has a steepness of 35‰; the highest point of the line is the Sella di Corno railway station, at 989.28 metres on the sea level. From the Terni station until the Marmore station the line climbs the drop of altitude near the Marmore falls with a steepness of 30‰.  Maximum allowed speeds vary for each stretch of the line; the highest is 110 kilometres per hour (68 mph), which is reached in the straight and flat stretch between Contigliano and Marmore, while the lowest is 55 kilometres per hour (34 mph), which is reached in the winding trait between Antrodoco and Rocca di Fondi, at the start of the Apennine pass. Signalling on the line is operated by Centralized traffic control while safety is assured by Sistema Supporto Condotta and by automatic axle-counting block system; installation of these systems took place from 1989 to 1993. The line has 20 stations, leaving stops out:  References Notes Footnotes Sources Cioci, Adriano (1989). La ferrovia Terni-Rieti, L'Aquila-Sulmona (in Italian). Bastia Umbra: Kronion libri. Colasante, Domenico (2009). In treno dal Tirreno all'Adriatico: Storia della ferrovia Roma-Sulmona-Pescara (in Italian). Gangemi Editore. ISBN 9788849210675. Retrieved 25 August 2020. De Cenzo, Stefano (2004). La centralità mancata. La questione ferroviaria in Umbria (1845-1927) (in Italian). Perugia: Giada editore. ISBN 88-87288-20-8. Lorenzetti, Roberto (1986). "3: La nuova coscienza della Sabina verso le ferrovie. Dal fallimento della Pescara-Rieti alla costruzione della Terni-Rieti-L'Aquila". Strade di ferro e territori isolati. La questione ferroviaria in un'area dell'Italia centrale (1846-1960) - una ricerca dell'Archivio di Stato di Rieti (in Italian). Vol. 68: Studi e ricerche storiche. Franco Angeli editore. Maravalle, Silverio (April 1979). "La Terni-Sulmona". Voci della Rotaia (in Italian). XXII (4). Roma: 12–16. Palmegiani, Francesco (1932). Rieti e la Regione Sabina. Storia, arte, vita, usi e costumi del secolare popolo Sabino: la ricostituita Provincia nelle sue attività (in Italian). Rome: edizioni della rivista Latina Gens. Santarelli, Andrea. Tesi di laurea "Sistemi di città e reti ambientali" (PDF) (Thesis) (in Italian). Università degli studi dell'Aquila. Tuzza, Alessandro, ed. (1927). "Prospetto cronologico dei tratti di ferrovia aperti all'esercizio dal 1839 al 31 dicembre 1926" (in Italian). Ufficio Centrale di Statistica delle Ferrovie dello Stato/Trenidicarta.it. Retrieved 23 August 2018. RFI, ed. (December 2003). Fascicolo Linea 107 (in Italian). Rete Ferroviaria Italiana. "La ferrovia Terni - Rieti - L'Aquila - Sulmona" (in Italian). Retrieved 24 August 2020. "Ferrovia Terni-Sulmona" (in Italian). Archived from the original on 15 August 2015. Retrieved 24 August 2020.  See also List of railway lines in Italy List of railway stations in Umbria List of railway stations in Lazio List of railway stations in Abruzzo

Adelaide Avery Claflin (July 28, 1846 – May 31, 1931) was an American woman suffragist and ordained minister. She became an ordained Unitarian minister at Meadville, Pennsylvania in 1897. She preached in Connecticut, Canada and the West. She was interested in liberal religion, natural science study, literary study and languages. She served on the School Board of Quincy, Massachusetts, 1884-87. She was interested in woman suffrage and education of women. Claflin was a member of the executive board of the Massachusetts Woman Suffrage Association. She was connected with the Boston Equal Suffrage Association. She lectured often on suffrage with Lucy Stone, Mary Livermore, and Julia Ward Howe. She campaigned in Rhode Island, 1886. Claflin was the author of occasional editorials and articles in Boston dailies, and a contributor to Woman's Journal. She was a director of the New England Women's Club, and served as president of Boston's Castilian Club.  Early years and education Narcissa Adelaide Avery was born in Boston, Massachusetts, July 28, 1846. She was a daughter of Alden Avery and Lucinda Miller (Brown) Avery, both natives of Maine, and both of English ancestry, although there is a little Scotch-Irish blood on the Miller side. Claflin was the second of four children. Her father, although an active business man, had much poetical and religious feeling. He was a prominent member of the Methodist Church, and, on account of his eloquence, was often in earlier life advised to become a minister. Her mother, of a practical, common-sense temperament, had much appreciation of nature and of scientific fact, and a gift for witty and concise expression of thought. So from both parents Claflin derived the ability to speak with clearness and epigrammatic force. She was a graduate of the Boston Girls' High School, 1862; did private study with Harvard University professors, 1864–65; and graduated from Meadville Theological School, 1896. Although in childhood attending the Methodist Church with their parents, both her sister and Claflin early adopted the Unitarian faith, and joined the church of Rev. James Freeman Clarke.  Career A year or two later after completing her education, she became a teacher in the Winthrop school. She married Frederick Allan Claflin (died March 14, 1908), of Boston, November 23, 1870. They resided for many years in Quincy, Massachusetts, and had a son and three daughters. In 1883, Claflin began to speak in public as an advocate of woman suffrage. In 1884, she was elected a member of the Quincy school committee, and served three years in that position, being the first woman who held office in that town. Although she was too busy with family life to take a very active part in public life, she wrote for the Boston papers. She also lectured, and occasionally went on short lecturing tours outside of New England. Best known as a woman suffragist, she wrote and spoke on various other topics. She died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, May 31, 1931.  References Citations Attribution This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain:  Leonard, John William (1914). Woman's Who's who of America: A Biographical Dictionary of Contemporary Women of the United States and Canada, 1914-1915 (Public domain ed.). American Commonwealth Company. p. 178.  This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain:  Willard, Frances Elizabeth; Livermore, Mary Ashton Rice (1893). A Woman of the Century: Fourteen Hundred-seventy Biographical Sketches Accompanied by Portraits of Leading American Women in All Walks of Life (Public domain ed.). Moulton. ISBN 9780722217139.  Bibliography Hitchings, Catherine F. (1975). Universalist and Unitarian women ministers. Universalist Historical Society.  External links  Works related to Woman of the Century/Adelaide Avery Claflin at Wikisource Works by or about Adelaide Avery Claflin at Internet Archive

The regnal years of English and British monarchs are the official regnal years of the monarchs of the Kingdom of England from 1066 to May 1707, the Kingdom of Great Britain from May 1707 to January 1801, and the United Kingdom since January 1801. The regnal calendar ("nth year of the reign of King X", abbreviated to "n X", etc.) continues to be used in many official British government and legal documents of historical interest, notably parliamentary statutes.  Overview For centuries, English official public documents have been dated according to the regnal years of the ruling monarch. Traditionally, parliamentary statutes are referenced by regnal year, e.g. the Occasional Conformity Act 1711 is officially referenced as "10 Anne c. 6" (read as "the sixth chapter of the statute of the parliamentary session that sat in the 10th year of the reign of Queen Anne"). In the event of a second session, or a second Parliament, in the same regnal year the chapter numbering would reset. As a result, either an "s. 2" or "sess. 2" to indicate the second session, or an "Stat. 2" to indicate a second Parliament would be added. For example, the Queen Regent's Prerogative Act 1554 is cited as "1 Mary s. 3 c. 1" because it was the first act passed in the third session of the parliament begun in the first year of the reign of Queen Mary, and the Riot Act is cited as "1 Geo 1 Stat. 2. c. 5.", being the fifth act passed in the second parliament of the first year of the reign of George I. Regnal years are calculated from the official date (year, month and day) of a monarch's accession. For example, King George III acceded on 25 October 1760. That marks the beginning of his first regnal year. His second regnal year starts on 25 October 1761, his third regnal year on 25 October 1762, and so on. When a monarch dies, abdicates or is deposed, the regnal year comes to an end (whether the full year has run its course or not).  A new regnal year begins from a new date, with a new monarch. As different monarchs begin their reigns at different times, the exact month and day when a regnal year begins varies across reigns.  For example, Elizabeth I's regnal year starts on 17 November, James I's on 24 March, Charles I's on 27 March, and so on. The regnal year is distinct from the official "legal year" – that is, the calendar used for legal, civic and ecclesiastical purposes. The legal year also did not always coincide with the start date for the historical year. Until the 13th century, the English legal year began at Christmas (25 December). From the 14th century until 1752, the legal year began on 25 March. It is only since 1752 that the legal year was re-set to coincide with the start of the historical calendar year (1 January) (see Calendar (New Style) Act 1750). These date differences can also be confusing when sorting dates in old documents before 1753. For example, the reign of Charles I came to an end with his execution on 30 January 1649, but contemporary legal records such as the House of Commons Journals record this as 30 January 1648. To account for this complication, it is customary for historians referring to legal events between 1 January and 25 March to write the year down in "double-barreled" format (e.g. "30 January 1648–49", the former being the legal year, the latter the historical year). The regnal years listed below are given in normal historical date (not legal year).  So a parliamentary statute that was passed on, say, 10 February 1585 (in normal calendar date) would be dated in the official record as 10 February 1584 (the legal year), and simultaneously said to have been passed in the 27th year of Elizabeth I (the regnal year that started on 17 November 1584). The 1750 Act reforming the legal year also officially introduced to England the Gregorian calendar on Thursday 14 September 1752.  Up until then, England had been using the Julian calendar, which by that time was eleven days behind the calendar of most countries on the European Continent.  So events before 1752 in English records often differ from European records, and it is sometimes necessary to refer to both sets of dates using "Old Style" (Julian) and "New Style" (Gregorian) notation, e.g. William of Orange's armada landed in England on 5 November 1688 (OS) or 15 November 1688 (NS) (see Old Style and New Style dates). The dates in the table below follow the English calendar (OS until 1752, NS thereafter). The following table gives the dates of the regnal years for Kings of England (and subsequently Great Britain), from 1066 to the present day.  These are official de jure dates, and may or may not coincide with whether a particular king had de facto power or not at that time.  For example, as the Commonwealth era was suppressed in the official record, the regnal years of Charles II are measured from 30 January 1649 (the day his father Charles I was executed); as a result, when Charles II actually became king, on 29 May 1660, he was already in his 12th regnal year. (For the de facto tabulation of English rulers, see any conventional list of English monarchs.)  Regnal calendar table To calculate the regnal year from a particular date, one subtracts the first regnal year from the calendar year in question. The year is not adjusted if the month and day falls before the regnal date, and if it falls on or after the regnal date, add one.  Finally – for the regnal year of William III after Mary's death (that is, from 28 December 1694 onwards) – one also adds 6.  Example 1: 4 July 1776. This falls in the reign of George III, whose first regnal year is 1760; so 1776 – 1760 = 16th year of his reign (4 July is before 25 October). Example 2: 2 May 1662. This is in the reign of Charles II, whose first regnal year is 1649. So 1662 – 1649 = 13, add 1 because 2 May is after 30 January, so the date falls in the 14th regnal year of Charles II. Example 3: 31 December 1695. This falls in the reign of William III alone (after Mary's death), whose "first" regnal year is 1694; so 1695 – 1694 = 1, add 1 because 31 December is after 28 December, and also add 6 because the date is after Mary's death (on 27 December), so the date falls in the "8th" year of his reign.  See also Citation of United Kingdom legislation Acts of Parliament Numbering and Citation Act 1962 List of English monarchs List of British monarchs  Notes References Citations Bibliography House of Commons (1802) [9 June 1660]. Journal of the House of Commons: volume 8: 1660–1667. pp. 59–61. "Chapter Five: Table of regnal year of English Sovereigns". Sweet & Maxwell's Guide to Law Reports and Statutes (Fourth ed.). London: Sweet & Maxwell's Guide. 1962. pp. 20–33.  Further reading Cheney, C. R.; Jones, Michael, eds. (2000). A Handbook of Dates for Students of British History. Royal Historical Society Guides and Handbooks. Vol. 4 (Revised ed.). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 21–47. ISBN 978-0-521-77095-8.

The 44th Thailand National Games (Thai: การแข่งขันกีฬาแห่งชาติ ครั้งที่ 44 "นครสวรรค์เกมส์", also known as the 2015 National Games and the Nakhon Sawan Games) were held in Nakhon Sawan, Thailand from 12 to 21 December 2015.  The opening ceremony, scheduled for 11 December, was postponed by Bike for Dad ปั่นเพื่อพ่อ, to 12 December. There were matches in 43 sports and 77 disciplines.  The games were held in Nakhon Sawan Sport Center and Nakhon Sawan sport school. Nakhon Sawan also hosted the 28th national games in 1995.  Marketing Emblem The red curve is for powerful success, the blue curve for the strength of the sport, the red circle is for knowledge of the sport, and the golden circle frame is a victory medal of competition. The emblem also has the face of a Yingge dancer.  Mascot The mascot is a dragon named Xiao Long (Dragon, 小龙), xiaolong meaning dragon. The Chinese dragon has been long regarded as the creator of humanitarian law, building confidence, showing power and goodness, mettle, heroic effort and perseverance, morality, nobility, and mightiness like a god. The Chinese dragon does not give up until they accomplish what they want; other attributes are conscientious, absolute discretion, optimistic, ambitious, beautiful, friendly and intelligent.  Torch relay At the grand palace, General Surayud Chulanont gave the royal flame to Assistant Minister of Tourism and Sports and Nakhon Sawan and the National games and National Para Games Organizing Committee. The route of torch relay was around Nakhon Sawan Province.  Provinces participating Sports Official sports Demonstration sports Makruk  Venues Note:Chai Nat Province is the venue for Cycling (BMX)  Ceremony Opening ceremony The opening ceremony started at 18:00 local time on December 12, 2015, at the Nakhon Sawan Province Central Stadium. It was attended by Minister of Tourism and Sports, Kobkarn Wattanavrangkul. This ceremony presented 4 shows including:  The first show: River of Life; Nakhon Sawan has four rivers: Ping River, Wang River, Yom River and Nan River and stream converge into Chao Phraya River at Pak Nam Pho. The second show: Lod Lai Mangkorn (Dragon), Culture of Thai Chinese in Nakhon Sawan. The third show: Honor the King, Loyalty of Thai people to the King. The fourth show: Celebrating 100 years of Nakhon Sawan.  Closing ceremony The closing ceremony started at 18:00 local time on December 12, 2015, at the Nakhon Sawan Province Central Stadium. It was attended by Assistant Minister of Tourism and Sports, Chawani Thongroj. This ceremony presented 4 shows and handover of the Thai National Games flag to the Governor of the Sports Authority of Thailand, Sakol Wannapong.  Medal tally Suphanburi led the medal table for the third consecutive time. A total of 77 provinces won at least one medal, 67 provinces won at least one gold medal, 8 provinces won at least one silver medal and 2 provinces won at least one bronze medal.    *   Host nation (Nakhon Sawan)  References External links Official website

R v Brown [1993] UKHL 19, [1994] 1 AC 212 is a House of Lords judgment which re-affirmed the conviction of five men for their involvement in consensual unusually severe sadomasochistic sexual acts over a 10-year period.  They were convicted of a count of unlawful and malicious wounding and a count of assault occasioning actual bodily harm (contrary to sections 20 and 47 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861). The key issue facing the Court was whether consent was a valid defence to assault in these circumstances, to which the Court answered in the negative. The acts involved included the nailing of a part of the body to a board, but not so as to necessitate, strictly, medical treatment. The court found no direct precedent for sadomasochism among the senior courts (those of binding precedent) so applied the reasoning of three indirectly analogous binding cases and others. The case is colloquially known as the Spanner case, named after Operation Spanner, the investigation which led to it.  Facts The five appellants engaged in sadomasochistic sexual acts, consenting to the harm which they received; whilst their conviction also covered alike harm against others, they sought as a minimum to have their mutually consented acts to be viewed as lawful. None of the five men complained of any of the acts in which they were involved, which were uncovered by an unrelated police investigation. The physical severity was not disputed. Each appellant (having had legal advice) pleaded guilty to the offence when the trial judge ruled that consent of the victim was no defence. The question approved and certified as in the public interest on appeal was whether the prosecution had to prove (in all similar cases) a lack of consent on the recipient's part. The appellants argued against conviction under the Offences Against the Person Act 1861 as they had in all instances consented to the acts they engaged in (volenti non fit injuria), that as with tattooing and customary-site body piercings their consent would be directly analogous to the lawful exceptions laid out by three cornerstone (and other) widely-spaced precedent cases.  Judgment The certified question of appeal which the House of Lords was asked to consider was:  Where A wounds or assaults B occasioning him actual bodily harm (ABH) in the course of a sado-masochistic encounter, does the prosecution have to prove lack of consent on the part of B before they can establish A's guilt under section 20 or section 47 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861? The Lords – by a bare majority, two out of five dissenting – answered this in the negative, holding that consent could not be a defence to these (typically overlapping) offences. Lord Templeman stated:  It is not clear to me that the activities of the appellants were exercises of rights in respect of private and family life. But assuming that the appellants are claiming to exercise those rights I do not consider that Article 8 invalidates a law which forbids violence which is intentionally harmful to body and mind. Society is entitled and bound to protect itself against a cult of violence. Pleasure derived from the infliction of pain is an evil thing. Cruelty is uncivilised. I would answer the certified question in the negative and dismiss the appeals of the appellants against conviction. His judgment examined the acts to be "unpredictably dangerous and degrading to body and mind and were developed with increasing barbarity and taught to persons whose consents were dubious or worthless". Lord Jauncey stated:  Before examining these cases it is interesting to look at the definitions of "Maim" and "Assault" in Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown, 8th ed. (1824), Book 1 in Chapter 15. Maiming is defined, at p. 107, Sect. 1, as "... such a hurt of any part of a man's body whereby he is rendered less able, in fighting, either to defend himself or to annoy his adversary ..." Examples are then given. Assault is defined, at p. 110, Sect. 1, as "... an attempt to offer, with force and violence, to do a corporal hurt to another" and battery (Sect. 2) as "... any injury whatsoever be it never so small, being actually done to the person of a man in an angry, revengeful, rude, or insolent manner..." ... the conclusion from each of them is clear, namely, that the infliction of bodily harm without  good reason is unlawful and that the consent of the victim is irrelevant. In the unreported case of Reg. v. Boyea (28 January 1992), in which the appellant was convicted of indecent assault on a woman, Glidewell L.J. giving the judgment of the Court of Appeal (Criminal Division) said:  "The central proposition in Donovan [1934] is in our view consistent with the decision of the court in the Attorney General's Reference (No. 6 of 1980) [1981]. That proposition can be expressed as follows: an assault intended or which is likely to cause bodily harm, accompanied by indecency, is an offence irrespective of consent, provided that the injury is not 'transient or trifling'." ... I prefer the reasoning of Cave J. in Coney and of the Court of Appeal in the later three English cases which I consider to have been correctly decided. In my view the line properly falls to be drawn between assault at common law and the offence of assault occasioning [ABH] created by section 47 of the Offences Against the Person Act 1861, with the result that consent of the victim is no answer to anyone charged with the latter offence or with a contravention of section 20 unless the circumstances fall within one of the well known exceptions such as organised sporting contests and games, parental chastisement or reasonable surgery. Furthermore, the possibility of proselytisation and corruption of young men is a real danger even in the case of these appellants and the taking of video recordings of such activities suggest that secrecy may not be as strict as the appellants claimed to your Lordships. If the only purpose of the activity is the sexual gratification of one or both of the participants what then is the need of a video recording?  My Lords, I have no doubt that it would not be in the public interest that deliberate infliction of [ABH] during the course of homosexual sado-masochistic activities should be held to be lawful ... If it is to be decided that such activities as the nailing by A of B's foreskin or scrotum to a board or the insertion of hot wax into C's urethra followed by the burning of his penis with a candle or the incising of D's scrotum with a scalpel to the effusion of blood are injurious neither to B, C and D nor to the public interest then it is for Parliament with its accumulated wisdom and sources of information to declare them to be lawful. Lord Lowry stated:  The disagreement concerns offences which occasion actual bodily harm. ... In the immediately following paragraph of his judgment the Lord Chief Justice [court below us] shows that what he said in Attorney General's Reference (No. 6 of 1980) was intended by him to be of general application ... If, as I, too, consider, the question of consent is immaterial, there are prima facie offences against sections 20 and 47 and the next question is whether there is good reason to add sado-masochistic acts to the list of exceptions contemplated in Attorney-General's Reference. In my opinion, the answer to that question is "No". In adopting this conclusion I follow closely my noble and learned friends Lord Templeman and Lord Jauncey. What the appellants are obliged to propose is that the deliberate and painful infliction of physical injury should be exempted from the operation of statutory provisions the object of which is to prevent or punish that very thing, the reason for the proposed exemption being that both those who will inflict and those who will suffer the injury wish to satisfy a perverted and depraved sexual desire. Sado-masochistic homosexual activity cannot be regarded as conducive to the enhancement or enjoyment of family life or conducive to the welfare of society. A relaxation of the prohibitions in sections 20 and 47 can only encourage the practice of homosexual sado-masochism and the physical cruelty that it must involve (which can scarcely be regarded as a "manly diversion") by withdrawing the legal penalty and giving the activity a judicial imprimatur. As well as all this, one cannot overlook the physical danger to those who may indulge in sado-masochism. In this connection, and also generally, it is idle for the appellants to claim that they are educated exponents of "civilised cruelty". As your Lordships have observed, the appellants have sought to fortify their argument by reference to the European Convention on Human Rights. On the view which I have taken, Article 7 has no relevance since the question of retrospective legislation or a retrospective judicial decision does not arise.  Article 8.1 of the Convention states that everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life, his home and his correspondence. The attempts to rely on this article is another example of the appellants' reversal of the onus of proof of legality, which disregards the effect of sections 20 and 47. I would only say, in the first, place, that article 8 is not part of our law. Secondly, there has been no legislation which, being post-Convention and ambiguous, falls to be construed so as to conform with the Convention rather than to contradict it. And thirdly, if one is looking at article 8.2, no public authority can be said to have interfered with a right (to indulge in sado-masochism) by enforcing the provisions of the 1861 Act. If, as appears to be the fact, sado-masochistic acts inevitably involve the occasioning of at least [ABH], there cannot be a right under our law to indulge in them.  Dissents Lord Mustill preferred consensual, private, sexual acts, up to and including involving ABH, to be outside of criminality:  In my opinion it should be a case about the criminal law of private sexual relations, if about anything at all ... [leaving aside] repugnance and moral objection, both of which are entirely natural but neither of which are, in my opinion, grounds upon which the court could properly create a new crime. Lord Slynn agreed:  As Goff L.J. put it in Collins v. Wilcock [1984] 1 W.L.R. 1172, 1177: "Generally speaking, consent is a defence to battery." As the word "generally" suggests the exception was itself subject to exceptions. Thus in Stephen's Digest of the Criminal Law it is stated in article 206 "Everyone has a right to consent to the infliction upon himself of bodily harm not amounting to a maim". By way of footnote it is explained that "Injuries short of maims are not criminal at common law unless they are assaults, but an assault is inconsistent with consent". Maim could not be the subject matter of consent since it rendered a man less able to fight or defend himself. (Hawkins Pleas of the Crown, 8th ed., Book 1, p. 107). Nor could a person consent to the infliction of death [the next article of the digest] or to an infliction of bodily harm in such manner as to amount to a breach of the peace (article 208). The law has recognised cases ... where consent can be a defence ... surgical operations, sports, the chastisement of children, jostling in a crowd, but all subject to a reasonable degree of force being used, tattooing and earpiercing; the latter [not a defence] include death and maiming. None of these situations, in most cases pragmatically accepted, either covers or is analogous to the facts of the present case. It is, however, suggested that the answer to the question certified flows from the decisions in three cases ... R. v. Coney (1882) ... the injuries given and received in prize- fights are injurious to the public ... Rex. v. Donovan [1934] ... was accepted to be an issue for the jury as to whether the prosecution had proved that the girl had not consented and whether the consent was immaterial ... Attorney General's Reference (No. 6 of 1980) [1981] two youths fought ... argument ... consent is no defence "where people ... try to cause ... or cause each other bodily harm for no good reason." It seems to me that the notion of "consent" fits ill into the situation where there is a fight. Three propositions seem to me to be clear. It is "... inherent in the conception of assault and battery that the victim does not consent" (Glanville Williams [1962] Grim. L.R. 74, 75). Secondly, consent must be full and free and must be as to the actual level of force used or pain inflicted. Thirdly, there exist areas where the law disregards the victim's consent even where that consent is freely and fully given. These areas may relate to the person (e.g. a child); they may relate to the place (e.g. in public); they may relate to the nature of the harm done. It is the latter which is in issue in the present case. ... If a line has to be drawn, as I think it must, to be workable, it cannot be allowed to fluctuate within particular charges and in the interests of legal certainty it has to be accepted that consent can be given to acts which are said to constitute [ABH] and wounding. ...  My conclusion is thus that as the law stands, adults can consent to acts done in private which do not result in serious bodily harm ... [Here] ... it must be proved by the prosecution that the person to whom the act was done did not consent to it. Accordingly I consider that these appeals should be allowed and the conviction set aside.  Criticism Legal journals and textbooks of the 21st century tend towards criticism of the majority's analysis and overtones. Baker writes: "The sadomasochists might argue that the telos of the participants' activities in sadomasochism is merely to achieve sexual gratification. But every time they want to achieve the ulterior aim of sexual gratification, they need to harm each other. The harm has to be repeated each time the recipient wants to receive sadomasochistic pleasure. The two are inseparable—the sexual gratification can only be achieved while the harm is being inflicted. Per contra, adornment procedures only involve a one-off wounding, burning, etc., which results in a long-term benefit. There is nothing unreasonable about preventing people from repeatedly inflicting grievous bodily harm upon others, merely because they want to repeat the ephemeral sexual thrill it gives them. Nonetheless, it seems that this argument should not apply to [ABH]. Those who regularly inflict [ABH] on themselves by smoking and drinking excessively are not criminalized, nor are those who supply them with the instruments of harm. Similarly, professional athletes regularly subject their bodies to [ABH], but recover." Marianne Giles calls the judgment "paternalism of an unelected, unrepresentative group who use but fail to acknowledge that power". Two years later Baker argued  that an application of the harm principle to many forms of nontherapeutic cosmetic surgery shows that these procedures are a form of physical harm, not a form of medicine, and therefore ought to be criminalized. Not only does the harm principle support the case for criminalization, but so too do the relevant precedents. This article focuses on the general moral justifications (wrongful harm to others) for criminalizing unnecessary harmful cosmetic surgery, but legal doctrine is also invoked to demonstrate that there is a legal justification for criminalization. The famous English case of R. v. Brown will be discussed to outline the core legal case for criminalization. This article does not aim to provide a comparative study of the U.S. and English authorities, but rather aims to make theoretical arguments for criminalization, and thus, works from the legal premise that in most states the U.S. courts have taken a similar position to that taken in the seminal English House of Lords decision in R. v. Brown.  Social impact Opposition to the judgment (in both consecutive appeals) legally focusses on the dissenting two final judges and the contrasting R v Wilson whereby a husband painfully branded his initials on his wife's buttocks at her request. Fears of bias due to heteronormativity were allayed in R v Emmett, whereby the lower court of binding precedent, the Court of Appeal of England and Wales, held the same rules apply to heterosexual participants in such acts. Citing R v Brown, law professors Fox and Thomson (2005) argue against non-therapeutic circumcision of boys, to the audience of medical professionals.  Similar cases K. A. v Belgium Laskey, Jaggard and Brown v United Kingdom  See also Operation Spanner Consent (criminal law) Rough sex murder defense  Footnotes References External links The Circumcision Ref. Library, R v Brown full case judgment JustisOne

The Exeter crossing loop collision was a railway accident that occurred between the Temora Mail Train and a goods train at Exeter railway station, New South Wales, on 13 March 1914. At that time the main line was a single track, with a crossing loop and a down refuge siding at Exeter.  Events leading to accident The up fast goods train was running late by the time it reached Exeter. Despite the train's being too long to be accommodated in the loop at that station, the signaller [night officer] turned the train into the loop. When the locomotive had reached the points at the Sydney end of the station, the rear of the train was still on the main line at the southern end. Faced with the knowledge that the Temora Mail would soon be due, the goods train was brought forward so that it could be reversed into a siding on the eastern side of the station yard. It was during this manoeuvre that the Temora Mail struck the goods train head-on.  Court trial for manslaughter Questions were swiftly raised as to why two trains should collide when the goods train should have had the protection of the home signal. The mail train driver claimed that the distant signal was clear when he passed it; however, as there was a thick fog at the time, he did not sight the home signal, which was against him, until the train was right upon it. The driver of the mail train was brought before the Goulburn Circuit Court charged with manslaughter. At that trial, the night officer at Exeter gave evidence to the effect that the down distant signal was in fact at danger at the time the mail train passed. The night officer further stated that there was no fog that night, but that just before the goods train arrived a slight mist had set in. However, the goods train driver gave conflicting evidence, stating that on the night of the accident the denseness of the fog made it difficult to see the signals. After a retirement of more than four hours, the jury delivered a verdict of "not guilty."  Deceased The collision killed 14. Five were said to have been killed almost instantly, three died while still crushed in their carriages, one succumbed as rescuers reached him, and two died on the Exeter station platform. The remaining three reportedly died in a temporary hospital that had been set up in a sleeping carriage. Alfred Bray, the guard, was one of those killed in the collision.   == References ==

A binder clip (also known as a foldback clip, paper clamp, banker's clip, foldover clip, bobby clip, or clasp) is a simple device for binding sheets of paper together.  It leaves the paper intact and can be removed quickly and easily, unlike the staple. It is also sometimes referred to as a handbag clip because of resemblance to a handbag when its clips are folded up.  Characteristics and methods of use A binder clip is a strip of spring steel bent into the shape of an isosceles triangle with loops at the apex. Tension along the base of the triangle forces the two sides closed, and the loops prevent the sharp steel edges from cutting into the paper. The loops also serve to hold two pieces of stiff wire, which are used as handles and allow the clip to be opened.  The two slots cut in each loop are shaped so that the wire handles can be folded down once the clip has been attached, and the spring force of the wire holds them down on the surface of the paper.  This holds the clip relatively flat, for easier stacking of paper. One handle can also be folded down while the other remains up to allow the stack of papers to be hung up. The handles can also be removed altogether by squeezing them sideways and pulling them out, allowing for more permanent binding. As compared to a paper clip, the binder clip is able to bind sheets of paper more securely, and is also resistant to rust. There are several sizes of binder clips, ranging from a base size of 5 millimetres (0.2 in) to 50 mm (1.97 in). The sheet steel portion is customarily black oxide coated, but a variety of decorative painted color schemes are also available. The sheet steel portion is occasionally made of stainless steel, the more typical spring steel can also be finished in nickel, silver or gold. The handles are normally nickel-plated.  Uses The binder clip is in common use in the modern office. It can hold a few to many sheets of paper, and is usually used in place of the paper clip for large volumes of paper. Various practical (and sometimes whimsical) alternative uses have been proposed. These include holding pieces of quilt together, creating a "beer pyramid" in a refrigerator with wire shelves, serving as a bookmark, a cheap alternative to a money clip or preventing computer cables from slipping behind desks. Smaller sized clips have been commonly used as "quick fix" fitting and sizing solutions in the fashion industry. In 1966, test pilot Joseph F. Cotton used the shiny metal portion of such a clip to short-circuit an electrical circuit panel to force the landing gear of the XB-70 bomber on a flight. The object is such a common sight in offices that, in late 2020, when restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic were lowered and people started returning to their offices, some missed and enjoyed the feeling of using a binder clip, after months without doing so. At around the same time, healthcare workers in at least one medical center used extra large binder clips as a cheap way to secure a plastic curtain between workers and patients infected with the airborne virus.  History In 1909, the method of binding sheets of paper together was to punch holes in them and tie them together with string or sew them, making it tedious to remove a single sheet of paper. The binder clip was invented, and patented in 1910 by Washington, D.C. area resident Louis E. Baltzley, grandson of Elias Howe, to help his father, born in 1848, twin to Edward Baltzley and son of Susan (née Howe) and David C. Baltzley, Edwin Baltzley, developers of Glen Echo Park and Glen Echo, Maryland, a writer, and inventor, with thirteen patents, hold his manuscripts together more easily. While similar-purposed designs have since been patented five times, the most produced version remains the U.S. patent 1,139,627. Louis E. Baltzley, with more than thirty other patents, initially produced this invention through the L.E.B. Manufacturing Company. These earliest binder clips are stamped "L.E.B." on one side of the sheet steel. Manufacturing rights were later licensed to other companies. Louis E. Baltzley, born circa 1885, by February 1930, had moved to Glen Ridge, New Jersey married and had two daughters, one marrying in 1940.  Gallery See also Bulldog clip Treasury tag   == References ==

M-168 was one of the shortest state trunkline highways in the US state of Michigan, extending just under a mile (1.6 km) from a junction with M-22 in downtown Elberta to the former Ann Arbor Railroad ferry docks. It followed the south shore of Lake Betsie (formed by the Betsie River before flowing into Lake Michigan). The highway was commissioned in 1931 and served as a connection to the car ferries until 1984. The road was reconstructed by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) in preparation to transfer it to village control. That transfer happened on April 24, 2012, and now the former highway is a village street.  Route description M-168 began at a junction with M-22 just west of where M-22 crosses over Lake Betsie.  Known as Frankfort Avenue, M-168 then traveled to the northwest near the shore of the lake through a mixed residential and commercial area before turning slightly westward onto Furnace Avenue. Along Furnace Avenue, the roadway is lined with homes on one side and lake frontage on the other. Eventually, the road curves to the west where it intersects Betsie Valley Trail coming to its terminus shortly thereafter at the former Ann Arbor Railroad ferry docks.  History M-168 had existed in its current location since 1931.  It was originally assumed into the state trunkline system at 0.8 miles (1.3 km) in length. Aside from a minor realignment of the junction with M-22 in 1987, the route had remained in this configuration since 1931. From its creation until 1984, the road was the main entrance for cars bound for boarding the car ferry. An MDOT document indicated that in 2010, a $2.1 million project would reconstruct M-168. Upon completion of the project, the route would be jurisdictionally transferred to the Village of Elberta, thereby removing M-168 from the state trunkline system. This transfer was finalized on April 24, 2012, and afterwards, the former M-168 was reclassified a village street.  Major intersections The entire highway was in Elberta, Benzie County.  See also Michigan Highways portal  References External links  Former M-168 at Michigan Highways

Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar (Arabic: جامعة كارنيجي ميلون في قطر) is a satellite campus of Carnegie Mellon University in Doha, Qatar. This campus is a member of the Qatar Foundation and started graduating students in May 2008. It enrolls around 400 students, has 60 faculty and postdoctoral researchers, and 90 staff members.  History Carnegie Mellon University's campus in Qatar was established in 2004. It was the fourth U.S. higher education institution to establish a campus in Qatar. The establishment of the campuses was founded by Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, the mother of Qatar's current Emir Tamim bin Hamad al Thani.  Academics Carnegie Mellon Qatar is part of Education City, a campus on the outskirts of Doha that currently houses eight other university campuses from the United States and Europe. Education City's other institutions include Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, Weill Cornell Medical College, Virginia Commonwealth University, Texas A&M, Northwestern University, HEC Paris, and University College London. The Doha campus of Carnegie Mellon offers the same degree programs and curricula that students receive at the Pittsburg campus. Undergraduate degrees are in Computer Science, Business Administration, Information Systems, Computational Biology, and Biological Sciences (a degree offered in conjunction with Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar).  Finance The campus facilities and upkeep are financed by the Qatar Foundation. Carnegie Mellon also receives subsidies each year to run the campus and pay faculty. It is estimated that Carnegie Mellon has received between $50 and $60 million per year from the nation of Qatar to operate the Doha campus. Tuition for the school was $49,610 in 2015.  Faculty As of December 2015, the campus had 62 faculty members.  Building Carnegie Mellon Qatar is housed in a building designed by architects Legorreta + Legorreta (currently known as LEGORRETA). The university began occupancy in August 2008. All academics, student affairs, operations, and events are held in the building.  Gallery See also List of universities and colleges in Qatar  References External links  website

Sister Fa (real name Fatou Diatta, born 1982 in Dakar, Senegal) is a Senegalese rapper and anti-female genital mutilation (FGM) activist.  Career Diatta began her career as a rapper in 2000, when she made her first demo tape. The following year, she performed at the Senegal Hip Hop Awards. In 2005, she released her first album, Hip Hop Yaw Law Fal. In 2008, she toured Senegal to raise awareness of the problem of FGM. In 2009, she released her international debut album Sarabah: Tales From the Flipside of Paradise. In 2011, Sarabah, a documentary about Diatta's tour Education Sans Excision (French for Education without Cutting), premiered at the human rights festival Movies That Matter.  Critical reception Sarabah: Tales From the Flipside of Paradise received a lukewarm review from Jon Lusk of the BBC, who wrote that "too much of the album consists of fairly pedestrian or annoyingly sing-songy melodies that echo playground chants (like Poum Poum Pa) or seem transparently aimed at the ring tone market." In The Daily Telegraph, Mark Hudson gave the album 3 out of 5 stars and wrote that Diatta "pits her gutsy verbalising against exquisite traditional melodies on this well-crafted debut." Rick Anderson reviewed the album for Allmusic, concluding that "It's rare that a hip-hop artist balances lightness, seriousness, funk, and message as successfully as this one does -- especially the first time out."  Personal life Diatta was subjected to FGM when she was a child. She met Lucas May, an Austrian ethologist, in 2005; they married within a week. In March 2006, she and her husband moved to Berlin.    == References ==

The Siemens S200 is a high-floor light rail vehicle (LRV) manufactured by Siemens Mobility in Florin, California. The S200 succeeds the SD-100, SD-160, SD-400 and SD-460 as the high-floor light rail vehicle for the North American market and is being manufactured and marketed alongside the low-floor Siemens S700.  Operators Calgary In September 2013, 60 light rail vehicles were ordered, costing $200 million, for the Calgary CTrain; the order was later slightly expanded to 63 LRVs at a cost of $201.6 million. The first car was delivered on January 6, 2016. Later, an additional 6 cars were ordered. The first of this order was delivered in May 2019 and was put into service on July 11, 2019. In February 2020, 15 more LRVs were ordered bringing the total fleet to 84 S200 LRVs. The new cars feature a host of new and upgraded technologies. Heated floors and triple-pane windows were added to combat Calgary's harsh winter climate, as well as sloped entryways to eliminate moving ramps found on older trains. A new speaker system adjusts the volume output depending on the number of passengers in each car. Dynamic interior LED lights adjust to become brighter when it is dark and dimmer when light is shining through the windows. The end doors were moved back to improve passenger flow and include LED lights to indicate if a door can be opened or if it is closing/locked. New infotainment systems were added alongside LED info signs to display next stop and line information. It is also capable of showing advertisements, although it has not been implemented yet. Some of these features (LCD information screens, security cameras, LED exterior signs) have been implemented on the refurbished Siemens SD-160 cars as part of mid-lifecycle refurbishment.  San Francisco Siemens have designated the S200 light rail vehicles for San Francisco as S200 SF; internally, the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency have designated them LRV4, succeeding prior LRV designs from Boeing-Vertol (LRV1) and AnsaldoBreda (LRV2 and LRV3).  The initial contract ordered 175 LRVs, totalling $648 million, for San Francisco's Muni Metro in September 2014. Option 1 for an additional 40 was exercised in June 2015 at an anticipated cost of $176 million. Four more LRVs were ordered in June 2017 for $16 million to handle an expected increase in traffic after the Golden State Warriors move to the Chase Center in 2019. Option 2 was partially exercised to order an additional 30 in August 2021 for $130 million. The remainder of Option 2 (which was for up to 45 additional) was forfeited. This makes the total firm orders 249 LRVs. The order is divided into a "replacement fleet" of 151 LRVs to replace Muni's existing fleet of Breda LRV2/3s, a "future fleet" of 68 to accommodate expanded ridership after the completion of the Central Subway and Chase Center, and a "second expansion fleet" of 30. Deliveries of the "future fleet" began in January 2017. The first Muni unit entered service on November 17, 2017. The "future fleet" deliveries completed in October 2019. Deliveries of LRVs for the "replacement fleet" are scheduled to begin in 2021.  Reliability One of the primary concerns for the LRV4 fleet in San Francisco was improving the mean distance between failures (MDBF) compared to the existing Breda LRV2/3 fleet. The Breda fleet was able to achieve an MDBF of 2,000–5,500 miles (3,200–8,900 km) in fiscal years 2005 and 2006; the contract with Siemens called for a MDBF of 25,000 miles (40,000 km). When they were initially placed in service, the Siemens LRV4 had a MDBF of 5,000 miles (8,000 km), improving to 17,000 miles (27,000 km) by January 2020.: 21  Seating Ridership surveys and SFMTA staff recommendations resulted in an all-longitudinal seating configuration for the initial "future fleet" delivery of 68 LRVs, where seats are placed along the long sides of the car, rather than lateral seating, where seats face the front and back of the vehicle. The longitudinal seating creates wider aisles, is preferred by advocates for the disabled, provides more room for standing passengers, and may accommodate bicycles on board, as the bicycle policy only allows folding bikes on board. However, in "future fleet" of 68 LRV4s, the long benches were flat and lacked the individual seating pockets used in the Breda longitudinal benches. In a November 2019 report, Muni provided details for a retrofit of the already-delivered "future fleet": half the flat longitudinal benches will be replaced with single transverse seats, and the other half will be replaced with individual longitudinal seats. For the "replacement fleet" of 151 cars, 50 will be delivered with seating to match the retrofitted "future fleet" of 68; the remaining 101 will have double transverse seats instead of the single transverse seats. The seats also will be lowered, enabling riders shorter than 5 ft 4 in (163 cm) to rest their feet on the floor.  Doors In April 2019, funding for additional cars was suspended after two notable incidents were reported in local media. The San Francisco Examiner reported that on April 12, after a passenger's hand became trapped in the door, she was dragged along as the car departed the station platform; although she managed to pull herself free, she then lost her balance, fell from the platform, striking the train, and landed unconscious on the tracks. It was the fourth reported incident where passengers were trapped by doors on the LRV4; of those, two resulted in injuries. As a temporary measure, the rear doors on LRV4s were locked shut to prevent additional trapped passengers; the San Francisco Board of Supervisors voted to withhold $62 million for additional cars approximately one week after the door and shear pin issues. Muni began testing a fix to the single panel doors on May 16, car no. 2036 began testing the improved sensitive edges, with one operator driving and another monitoring the rear door. Muni announced the fixes to the doors had been implemented successfully and normal operation resumed in June 2019. In the original door sensor design, only one sensing strip was installed on the interior surface of the door edge to detect objects or hands; two more edge strips were added to fix the issue, both on the exterior surface of the door edge.: 8–10  Couplers In a separate incident which also occurred on April 12, a shear pin failed at the yard when a two-car train was being uncoupled after leaving service for the day. Each coupler is designed with two shear pins;: 11  the shear pin is designed to break to protect the coupling mechanism. An inspection found another shear pin had failed on another uncoupled car; Muni suspended coupled operation of the LRV4s as a result. The door and coupler issues prompted the California Public Utilities Commission to launch an investigation. More extensive inspections later showed that approximately 1⁄3 of the couplers had some degree of damage or defect. The center of the coupler is maintained at a height of 17.5 inches (440 mm) above top of rail, typically by shimming the truck relative to the carbody after truing the wheels, not by adjusting the coupler;: 11  the coupler adjustment screw is designed to change the inclination of the coupler, not the height.: 14  Unclear instructions led to adjustment of the coupler height via the inclination screw; this in turn pushed the coupler lateral stop bracket out of position, enabling excessive lateral travel, which caused the shear pins to break.: 12–13  Maintenance instructions were updated, the lateral stop bracket assembly was redesigned, and the travel of the coupler adjustment screw was limited to fix the issue.: 14–15  The redesigned couplers went into service in June 2019. In December 2019, Muni announced it would run uncoupled cars again because the new shear pins became unreliable after three months' use; a redesign was being studied. The issue was discovered after a shear pin failed in fatigue; although the two cars remained coupled, the operator "felt like her train was being continually rear ended". Siemens reported the issue affects all 68 cars in the "future fleet". Siemens and the manufacturer of the couplers, Voith, identified potential causes for the fatigue failure of the shear pins. The existing design is sufficient to allow coupled operation of the cars for at least 90 days, and new shear pins were being provided as a warranty item until the issue has been resolved.: 16  The shear pins were failing due to the sudden change in gradient at intersections.  Brakes At the Board of Supervisors meeting in April 2019, Muni officials also reported the wheels on the LRV4s required resurfacing before their expected end-of-life because of the use of emergency brakes, which are engaged once a week, on average. At any given time, only half (or fewer) of the LRV4s were available for service because of wheels with flat spots caused by emergency braking. In typical operation, the LRV is both accelerated and braked using a "T" handle controller at the operator's left hand; an emergency stop can be commanded using either the red 'mushroom button' on the forward control panel, or by the "T" handle. For the Breda LRV2/3, the "T" handle is pulled out and twisted 90 degrees for the emergency stop; for the Siemens LRV4, the "T" handle is only pulled out. This difference meant that for the Breda LRVs, it was usually quicker to use the 'mushroom button' to command an emergency stop; there was essentially no difference for the Siemens LRVs.: 16–17  Because the 'stick' brakes on the prior Breda LRV2/3 cars were prone to failure, operators were trained to use the 'mushroom button' when encountering obstacles on the tracks. However, using the 'mushroom button' on the LRV4s, as operators were trained, locked-up the wheels and flattened the wheel surface.: 18  A plan was announced in November 2019 to add track brakes to the powered end trucks; the design for the track brakes was submitted to the CPUC for approval. Track brakes were already equipped on the center (unpowered) truck, but the combination of the wheel brakes and the existing single-truck track brake led to flat-spotting the wheels each time an emergency stop was commanded. Testing of an LRV4 retrofitted with additional track brakes showed the rate of flat-spotting wheels during emergency stops fell from nearly 100% to just 0.4%.: 18–19  Cleveland The Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority intends to acquire 24 S200 vehicles to replace heavy rail vehicles used on the Red Line, with an option to acquire 36 additional units to replace the light rail vehicles used on the Blue, Green, and Waterfront lines. GCRTA's S200 vehicles will include steps at the front and back doors for boarding and alighting at street-level light rail stations and stops. These doors will also have manually operated trapdoors for use on the Red Line which exclusively uses high-level platforms. The plan was first announced in January 2023, and the deal was finalized in May 2023, after the RTA received a grant from the Federal Transit Administration. The S200s are expected to begin service in Cleveland in 2026.  St. Louis In May 2023, Metro announced its intention to acquire 48 vehicles to replace its aging fleet of SD-400 light rail vehicles.  See also Other Siemens light rail vehicles for the American market:  Siemens–Duewag U2 – high-floor LRV for either level boarding at high-platform stations or steps for passenger loading at street level SD-100 and SD-160 – high-floor LRV for either level boarding at high-platform stations or steps for passenger loading at street level SD-400 and SD-460 – high-floor LRV for both level boarding at high-platform stations and with steps for passenger loading at street level SD660 – low-floor LRV for passenger loading at street level, custom built for Portland, Oregon P2000 – high-floor LRV for level boarding at high-platform stations, custom built for Los Angeles S700 and S70 – low-floor LRV for passenger loading at street level  References External links  Media related to Siemens S200 at Wikimedia Commons

Zain South Sudan is a mobile communications and information technology services provider in South Sudan. Zain South Sudan is a subsidiary of the Zain Group, a telecommunications multinational, active in eight middle eastern and north African countries, serving an estimated 48.3 million customers, as of 30 June 2021. Zain South Sudan is the second-largest telecommunications network company in the country, with an estimated 1,050,000 customers as of 31 December 2020, behind market leader and sole competitor at that time, MTN South Sudan, who has 1.7 million customers. Zain South Sudan's market share was 38.2 percent, as of December 2020.  Location The headquarters of Zain South Sudan are located along Mundri Road, Haya Jabal, Gudele, in the city of Juba, the capital of South Sudan. The coordinates of the headquarters are 4°52'07.0"N, 31°32'24.0"E (Latitude:4.868611; Longitude:31.540000).  Overview With  customer base of about 1.05 million, as of 31 December 2020, Zain South Sudan commanded a market share of 38.2 percent against its only competitor at that time, MTN South Sudan, with 1.7 million subscribers and a 61.8 percent market share. At that time, the population of South Sudan was estimated at 11 million people.  Governance The chief executive officer of Zain South Sudan is Basel Manasrah, effective January 2013.  History As part of the 2005 Naivasha Agreement between the Khartoum central government and the Sudan People's Liberation Army/Movement (SPLA/M), a referendum should take place after five years in the Southern Sudan region, to determine whether the region should remain as part of Sudan or become independent. On 7 February 2011, the referendum results show the majority voting in favour of independence. As a result, of the referendum, which shows Southern Sudan's succession from Sudan, Zain Sudan has to split its operation into two separate independent networks. It was the first time in the history of the telecom industry worldwide for a network to split its operations. A proposal for the network separation which covered 90% of the populated areas was prepared in January 2011. The objective was to build an independent network from Sudan with the most advanced Billing and VAS systems. This was completed before September 1, the date marked for the separation. The network separation was completed immediately after the independence of South Sudan and Zain South Sudan became operational. Thanks to the early and careful planning, the network was established with the world's most advanced 3G technology and covered South Sudan's largest cities including Juba, Wau, Aweil, and Malakal. The network was also extended to other populated cities and SIM Cards were changed to bear the new name, Zain-South Sudan (Zain SS). Zain South Sudan was the first company to use the new numbers after migration to the new country code (+211) together with the new Zain-South Sudan SIM Cards in the newly born nation. Additionally, roaming subscribers in South Sudan were able to use the Zain-South Sudan network at a time when other networks were facing difficulties in accommodating roaming subscribers.  See also List of mobile network operators in South Sudan  References Further reading "Zain launches 4G in South Sudan". www.telegeography.com. Retrieved 6 November 2022.  External links Zain corporation "Zain South Sudan – M2M, Modules, Certification, SIM, Data Plans | M2MSupport.net". Internet disrupted, streets quiet in South Sudan after call for protests As of 30 August 2021.

Chow is a Chinese and English surname.  Origins As an English surname, Chow originated as a nickname, from Middle English chowe, meaning "chough" or "jackdaw". As a Chinese surname, Chow may be a romanisation of the pronunciations in different varieties of Chinese of the following surnames, listed based on their Pinyin romanisation (which reflects the Mandarin Chinese pronunciation):  Zhōu (Chinese: 周), romanised Chow based on its Cantonese pronunciation (Jyutping: Zau1; Cantonese Yale: Jāu) Zōu (Chinese: 鄒), homophonous with the above surname in Cantonese, though not in other varieties of Chinese Qiū (Chinese: 秋), romanised Chow based on its Cantonese pronunciation (Jyutping: Cau1; Cantonese Yale: Chāu) Zhào (traditional Chinese: 趙; simplified Chinese: 赵) Cáo (Chinese: 曹) Qiú (Chinese: 仇)  Statistics According to statistics cited by Patrick Hanks, there were 1,459 people on the island of Great Britain and 49 on the island of Ireland with the surname Chow as of 2011. In 1881 there had been 19 people with the surname in Great Britain, mainly in Yorkshire. The 2010 United States Census found 17,059 people with the surname Chow, making it the 2,122nd-most-common name in the country. This represented an increase from 15,650 (2,124th-most-common) in the 2000 Census. In both censuses, slightly less than nine-tenths of the bearers of the surname identified as Asian, between three and four per cent as White, and between three and four percent as Hispanic. It was the 72nd-most-common surname among respondents to the 2000 Census who identified as Asian.  People Chinese surname Zhōu (周) Shouson Chow (周壽臣; 1861–1959), Hong Kong businessman M. D. Chow (周今覺; 1878–1949), Chinese philatelist and mathematician Chow Chih (周址; 1890–1953), Chinese general of the Second Sino-Japanese War Chow Chi-yuen (周至元; 1900–1971), Hong Kong businessman, founder of the Chow Tai Fook jewellery chain Chow Chung-cheng (周仲錚; 1908–1996), Chinese-born artist in Germany Wei-Liang Chow (周煒良; 1911–1995), Shanghai-born mathematician who worked in algebraic geometry Wen Tsing Chow (周文俊; 1918–2001), Chinese-born American missile guidance scientist Ven Te Chow (周文德; 1919–1981), Chinese-born engineer and educator in the United States Ruby Chow (周馬雙金; 1920–2008), American restaurateur and politician Chow Lien-hwa (周聯華; 1920–2016), Chinese Baptist minister Yuan-Shih Chow (周元燊; 1924–2022), Chinese-born American statistician Chow Kwen Lim (周君廉; 1928–2016), Hong Kong businessman, founder of the Chow Sang Sang jewellery chain Chow Chung (周驄; born 1931), Hong Kong film and television actor Chow Yei-ching (周亦卿; 1935–2018), Hong Kong businessman Chow Ching Lie (周勤丽; born 1936), Chinese-born French writer Chow Yam-nam (周欽南; 1937–2013), Thai guru Michael Chow (restaurateur) (周英華; born 1939), founder of the Mr. Chow restaurant chain Chow Kwai Lam (周贵林; 1942–2018), Malaysian footballer Esther Ngan-ling Chow (周顏玲; born 1943), Chinese-born sociologist in the United States Louise Chow (周芷; born 1943), Chinese-born biochemistry professor in the United States Selina Chow (周梁淑怡; born 1945), Hong Kong media executive and politician Cheryl Chow (1946–2013), American educator and politician, daughter of Ruby Chow Norm Chow (周友賢; born 1946), American football coach Chow Kai Wing (周佳榮; born 1947), Hong Kong history professor York Chow (周一嶽; born 1947), Hong Kong politician Chow Chung-kong (周松崗; born 1950), Hong Kong engineer, former CEO of the MTR Corporation Tina Chow (born Bettina Louise Lutz; 1950–1992), American model and jewelry designer, wife of restaurateur Michael Chow David Chow (politician) (周錦輝; born 1950), Macau politician George Chow (周烱華; born c. 1950), Hong Kong-born Canadian politician Chow Kim Hoong (周剑雄; 1950–1973), Malaysian-born stateless person and convicted murderer Robert Chow (周融; born 1950), Hong Kong journalist Ronald Chow (周美德; born 1951), Hong Kong politician Christine Chow Ma (周美青; born 1952), Hong Kong-born wife of former Republic of China president Ma Ying-jeou Stephen Chow Chun-kay (周振基; born 1954), Hong Kong businessman Jennifer Chow (周潔冰; born 1955), Hong Kong politician Chow Yun-fat (周潤發; born 1955), Hong Kong film actor Chow Wai-keung (周偉強; born c. 1957), Hong Kong social worker and politician Billy Chow (周比利; born 1958), Hong Kong film actor and kickboxer Raymond "Shrimp Boy" Chow (周國祥; born 1959), Hong Kong-born organized crime boss in San Francisco Michael Chow (actor) (周文健; born 1960), Hong Kong actor Stephen Chow (周星馳; born 1962), Hong Kong film actor and director Kathy Chow (周海媚; born 1966), Chinese actress and singer Vivian Chow (周慧敏; born 1967), Hong Kong actress and singer Valerie Chow (周嘉玲; born 1970), Hong Kong actress and fashion publicist Angela Chow (周瑛琦; born 1972), Taiwan-born Canadian actress Chow Tsz Ki (周梓琪; born 1972), Hong Kong fencer China Chow (born 1974), British actress, daughter of restaurateur Michael Chow Wave Chow (周榮佳; born 1975), Hong Kong newspaper columnist Amy Chow (周婉儀; born 1978), American gymnast who competed in the 1996 and 2000 Summer Olympics Duncan Chow (周群達; born 1978), Hong Kong actor Endy Chow (周國賢; born 1979), Hong Kong singer Holden Chow (周浩鼎; born 1979), Hong Kong solicitor and actor Niki Chow (周勵淇; born 1979), Hong Kong actress and singer Chow Chun Fai (周俊輝; born 1980), Hong Kong artist Chow Ho-Wan (周浩雲; born 1982), Hong Kong racing rider Janet Chow (周家蔚; born 1983), Hong Kong actress Crystal Chow (周澄; born 1986), Hong Kong activist Edward Chow (周嘉賢; born 1987), Hong Kong figure skater Lori Chow (周美欣; born 1988), Canadian-born Hong Kong fashion model Chow Cheuk Fung (周綽豐; born 1989), Hong Kong footballer Alex Chow (周永康; born 1990), Hong Kong activist Tim Chow (周定洋; born 1994), British footballer who played for Chinese Taipei at the international level Agnes Chow (周庭; born 1996), Hong Kong activist Rey Chow (周蕾; fl. 1980s–present), Hong Kong-born cultural critic  Chinese surname Zōu (鄒) Edmund Chow (鄒偉雄; born 1925), Hong Kong lawyer Raymond Chow (鄒文懷; 1927–2018), Hong Kong film producer and executive Gregory Chow (鄒至莊; born 1930), Chinese-born American economist Olivia Chow (鄒至蕙; born 1957), Hong Kong–born Canadian politician Matt Chow (鄒凱光; born 1968), Hong Kong screenwriter Chow Ka Wa (鄒嘉華; born 1986), Hong Kong footballer Chow Kwong Wing (鄒廣榮; born 1986), Hong Kong rower Chow Mei Kuan (鄒美君; born 1994), Malaysian badminton player  Chinese surname Zhào (趙) Stefen Chow (赵峰; born 1980), Malaysian photographer Jun Yi Chow (赵俊毅), Malaysian composer  Chinese surname Cáo (曹) Raymond Chow (artist) (曹惠文; born 1941), Canadian artist Chow Kon Yeow (曹观友; born 1958), Malaysian politician  Chinese surname Qiáo (喬) Liang Chow (乔良; born 1968), Chinese artistic gymnast  Chinese surname Qiú (仇) Chow Chee Keong (仇志強; 1948–2018), Malaysian-born football goalkeeper in Hong Kong  Other People with other surnames spelt Chow, or for whom the Chinese characters of their names are unavailable:  Gin Chow (1857–1933), Chinese immigrant fortune teller in California Bob Chow (1907–2003), American sports shooter William Kwai Sun Chow (1914–1987), American martial artist Chow Shiu-hung (born 1935), Hong Kong-born footballer who competed internationally for the Republic of China Chow Kwong Choi (born 1943), Hong Kong cyclist, twin brother of Chow Kwong Man Chow Kwong Man (born 1943), Hong Kong cyclist, twin brother of Chow Kwong Choi Lucas Chow (born c. 1953), Singaporean media executive Jade Chow Wei Mun (born 1957), Malaysian physician Chow Tai Ming (born 1959), Hong Kong cyclist Helen Chow (born 1965), Malaysian swimmer Chow Lai Yee (born 1967), Hong Kong swimmer Johny Chow (born John Mark Bechtel, 1972), American guitarist Stanley Chow (born 1974), British illustrator Felice Chow (born 1977), Trinidad and Tobago rower Winston Chow (born 1977), American activist Kelsey Chow (born 1991), American actress Chi-Ming Chow (fl. 1990–present), Canadian cardiologist Deborah Chow (fl. 2000s–present), Australian-born Canadian filmmaker Edmond Chow (fl. 2000s–present), American computer scientist Jack Chow, American professor of public health Jennifer Chow (novelist), American novelist Jerry M. Chow, American physicist K. Victor Chow, American finance professor May Chow, Canadian chef Peter Sienpin Chow, electrical engineer in the United States Yucho Chow (fl. 1905–1949), Canadian photographer  Fictional characters David Chow (The Young and the Restless) Kai-Lan Chow, a female Chinese-American character voiced by Jade-Lianna Peters in Ni Hao, Kai-Lan Leslie Chow, a character played by Ken Jeong in The Hangover Trilogy   == References ==

Abdulhamit Gül (Turkish: Abdülhamit Gül; born 12 March 1977) is a Turkish politician and former Minister of Justice. He is a member of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from Gaziantep. He was previously the General Secretary of the Justice and Development Party. He was re-elected at the 2023 Turkish parliamentary election in Gaziantep. He is not related with Abdullah Gül.  Early life and education Gül was born to working-class parents in Nizip  on 12 March 1977. His father is originally from Artvin. His mother was the daughter of an Islamic scholar born in Çermik and mentored by Said Nursî. She knew Kurdish. Gül attended a local high school, showing political interest from a young age. He completed his higher education at Ankara University.  Political career He was assigned as a member of board in Ankara Youth Community of Virtue Party (FP) and Welfare Party (RP). He was the head of the National Youth Foundation from 1999 to 2001. Between 2001 and 2003, he was the vice chairman of FP. From 2003 to 2010, he participated in the General Administration Board of FP as a member. From November 2010 to 22 September 2012, he served a member of the Founders' Board of People's Voice Party (HSP). After the union of Justice and Development Party (AKP) and HSP, he was chosen as a member of the Official Decision and Administration Committee on 30 September 2012, at the 4th Ordinary Congress of AKP. In the general election of June 2015, he has been elected into the parliament as deputy of Gaziantep. He served as General Secretary of AKP from the meeting of Official Decision and Administration Committee at 13 September 2015 until being replaced by Fatih Şahin on 20 July 2017.  References External links Twitter page

Donald Spargo Allister (born 27 August 1952) is a retired Church of England bishop. He was the Archdeacon of Chester from 2002 to 2010 and on 5 November 2009 was nominated as the next Bishop of Peterborough. He was installed on 17 April 2010 and retired in January 2023. Allister served in parish positions in Hyde, Greater Manchester; Sevenoaks, Kent; Birkenhead, Merseyside and Cheadle, Greater Manchester.  While at Sevenoaks he also served as a consultant editor of the Church of England Newspaper and in Birkenhead he was also a part-time hospital chaplain.  He has been a member of the General Synod of the Church of England since 2005 and was on the committee which drafted proposed legislation regarding the consecration of women as bishops. He is also a member of the Council for Christian Unity. In 2001 Allister attracted media attention after it was reported that he had refused to allow a couple to have the hymns "Jerusalem" and "I Vow to Thee, My Country" at their wedding. He has also spoken out about baptising the children of unmarried couples and also on sex outside of marriage more generally.  Early life Allister was born in Liverpool, Lancashire (before Merseyside was created) in 1952, the son of a manager in the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company and a nursing sister. The family soon moved across the Mersey to Birkenhead on the Wirral peninsula.  Later they moved to Bromley, Kent, before returning to the Wirral when they settled in Heswall, before finally returning to Birkenhead where he attended Birkenhead School. In his childhood he was a choirboy at several churches and also an altar server for his uncle from whom comes his middle name of Spargo. Allister then went up to Peterhouse, Cambridge to study medicine, later changing to theology. After graduation, he undertook further theological studies at Trinity College, Bristol.  Ministry He was made a deacon at Petertide 1976 (27 June) and ordained a priest the next Petertide (26 June 1977), both times by Victor Whitsey, Bishop of Chester, at Chester Cathedral. After ordination Allister served as a curate at St George's Church, Hyde from 1976 to 1979 and at St Nicholas' Church, Sevenoaks from 1979 to 1983.  During this period he was also a consultant editor of the Church of England Newspaper.  He was then appointed vicar of Christ Church, Birkenhead in 1983, also working as a part-time hospital chaplain. In 1989 Allister became rector of St Mary's Church, Cheadle. He was also chairman of the Church Society, a conservative evangelical Anglican charity, from 1995 to 2000. In addition to his parish role, he became rural dean of the Cheadle deanery in 1999.  In 2001 he received media coverage when it was reported that he had refused to allow a couple to have the hymns "Jerusalem" and "I Vow to Thee, My Country" sung at their wedding.  He later said:  I never banned the hymn. But most people who come to be married ask for it so I do encourage them to choose something else. In this case the bride-to-be phoned the church while I was on holiday and spoke to the organist who mistakenly said the hymn was not permitted. It was blown out of all proportion. In 2002 Allister was appointed as the Archdeacon of Chester.  In this position he has also chaired the diocesan committees on education, houses and glebe. He also acted as the bishop's adviser on healthcare chaplaincy.  He became a member of General Synod in 2005 and was appointed to the commission drafting legislation relating to the possible consecration of women as bishops in 2006, serving until it delivered its proposals in 2008. On 5 November 2009 it was announced from 10 Downing Street that Allister had been nominated as the next Bishop of Peterborough. The see had become vacant with the death of Ian Cundy in May 2009. The announcement was followed by a press conference in Peterborough. The Congé d'Elire officially authorising his election as bishop was issued by Elizabeth II on 1 December 2009. He was consecrated as a bishop in St Paul's Cathedral on 25 March 2010 and was enthroned as Bishop of Peterborough in Peterborough Cathedral on 17 April 2010. On 4 February 2014, Allister was admitted to the House of Lords as a Lord Spiritual. On 4 November 2011, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in theology by the University of Chester "in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the promotion of Christian education". On 3 July 2022, Allister announced his intention to retire (resigning his see) in January 2023. He officially retired on 8 January 2023.  Views Allister had previously refused to baptise the children of unmarried parents and condemned sex outside marriage. In 1993, in an essay in which he identified as a conservative evangelical, he wrote "Liberalism is one of Satan's greatest weapons against the church." He attributed the fire at York Minster in 1984, the fire at Windsor Castle in 1992, and "the disastrous royal marriage saga of last year" (a reference to the separation of Charles, Prince of Wales from Diana, Princess of Wales in 1992), to the judgment of God.  In 1993, he set out a complementarian view of the role of women: i.e., the "distinctions between men and women in church, society and home".: 163  The Synod of the Church of England had voted to allow the ordination of women as priests in 1993. As such, he made the following state concerning the ordination of women:  There is a difficult judgment to be made as to whether the clear biblical prohibition on women exercising headship, teaching authority, in the church means they cannot be presbyters. I respect the view that they can-provided that it goes on to say that women cannot be incumbents.: 164   In 1999, Allister objected to the admission of children to Holy Communion before confirmation. He also stated that "Infant baptism only signifies God's grace, not the child's response. It is therefore incomplete, partial or provisional initiation." Allister later changed his mind about the ordination of women. In 2009, following the announcement that he would be the next Bishop of Peterborough, he stated that he "would ordain women as priests" and "would happily serve with or under a woman bishop". However, he also called for those who object to the ordination of women to be "treated in a way that allows them to stay in the Church with integrity.” When his appointment as Bishop of Peterborough was announced in 2009, the diocesan website stated that "his views have changed over the years and that, like all Christians, he is on a faith-journey. He remains conservative in matters of doctrine and ethics". He was quoted saying "Today, I'm happy to attend and lead worship in churches of all traditions, from Anglo-Catholic to New Wine ... I love the Church of England in all its variety".  Personal life Allister is married to Janice, a general practitioner and they have three children: their son, John, is now a vicar in Nottingham.  Styles The Reverend Donald Allister (1976–2002) The Venerable Donald Allister (2002–2010) The Right Reverend Donald Allister (2010–present)  References External links Diocese of Peterborough website

Yours as Fast as Mine is the second LP album by Boston band The Main Drag which was released in June 2007 on the band's own imprint, Reasonable People's League (RPL Audio), after being in the making for 2 years. The album was able to be financed after the band won the Salon.com National Song Search Contest in 2006, gaining the $5,000 grand prize. Matt Levitt left The Main Drag after the release of Yours As Fast As Mine.  Trivia The song A Jagged Gorgeous Winter was included in Rock Band 2 as a playable song on the disc and also on a Target commercial for Rock Band 2. This helped to bring the band to wider public attention. The version of A Jagged Gorgeous Winter included on Rock Band 2 was a remix that Jon Carter and Adam Arrigo made, adding extra guitar flourishes and a short drum break to make the song more enjoyable to play in the game.(The drum break can be heard right before the lyrics "Got A Jagged Gorgeous Winter from the Summer's thread",or 2:32 to 2:36 in the official Video on YouTube) The remix tends to be the version that is now played live, and it is also the version for which the official video was released. Love During Wartime was featured on The Guild as the outro to the final episode of the second season. The song was also included on Paste Magazine's CD sampler in February 2008. Arrigo recorded Car Windows, Swine Houses, and Taking Apart a Gigantic Machine while he was working with post-punk band Blanks. during the production of their first EP. While under their influence, he began to incorporate elements of their style into his songs. What's Yr Favorite Dinosaur? has a guitar hook that references the Jurassic Park theme. Goodnight Technologist was on Knocks From The Underground: The Best of Underplayed Boston, a compilation of bands local to Boston who deserve more attention. The compilation was released by the band's previous label, Endless Recordings. Yours As Fast As Mine launched on the Rock Band Network in late 2009, a system designed by Harmonix to allow artists to make their music available to purchase and play in the video game Rock Band.  Music videos The original video for A Jagged Gorgeous Winter was shot and edited within 24 hours by John Drake, the band's drummer. It was released in January 2007, and filmed in the same place the song was originally recorded - exactly one year later. In summer 2009, a music video was made for A Jagged Gorgeous Winter ("Rock Band 2" Remix) which was directed by Isaac Ravishankara. The video featured a prominent homage to the comic strip Calvin and Hobbes, with Arrigo dressed as Calvin and Boch as Hobbes. The band has said that there are plans for music videos for the tracks Love During Wartime and Talk Them Down. The Main Drag worked with French-Swiss directors Ben & Julia to create a surreal and psychedelic music video for the song Dove Nets (from Yours As Fast As Mine) which was released in November 2009. The music video was accompanied by a website, Dove Lovers, which featured behind-the-scenes information and other bonus features.  Track listing "How We'd Look on Paper" – 4:31 "Swine Houses" – 4:12 "A Jagged Gorgeous Winter" – 3:51 "Love During Wartime" – 4:07 "Car Windows" – 3:27 "Montana" – 3:25 "What's Your Favorite Dinosaur?" – 3:26 "Dove Nets" – 2:53 "Taking Apart a Gigantic Machine" – 4:54 "Even Seconds" – 4:51 "Goodnight Technologist" – 5:25  Personnel Adam Arrigo: vocals, production/programming, guitar, keyboard, glockenspiel Matt Boch: vocals, guitar, bass, keyboard, trumpet Jon Carter: guitar, bass, keyboard John Drake: drums Matt Levitt: violin/string arrangements Dan Cardinal: bass, engineering Tom Keidel: trumpet (track 1), guitar (track 2) Molly Lorenzo: marimba (track 1), additional songwriting (track 4), backing vocals (track 8), wine glasses (track 10) Rich Wilner: drums (track 2) Sweatpants and Zach Robbins: backing vocals (track 2) Debbie Neigher: backing vocals (track 3, 7) Max Lewis: programming (track 4), shaker (track 6), additional programming (track 6) Cory Levitt: bass (track 5) Sarah Arrigo: backing vocals (track 9) Erina Suto: cello (track 9) Omar Tuffaha: double bass (track 9) Nate Raticker-Flynn: drums (track 9) Andy Zimmerman: cello (track 10) Jim Devane: additional sound manipulation (track 11) All tracks recorded, produced, and mixed by The Main Drag Mastered by Jeff Lipton at Peerless Mastering Artwork by Hayes Roberts, CD artwork by Molly Lorenzo  References External links The Main Drag's official website The Main Drag's MySpace

The United States Office of Government Ethics (OGE) is an independent agency within the executive branch of the U.S. Federal Government which is responsible for directing executive branch policies relating to the prevention of conflicts of interest on the part of Federal executive branch officers and employees.  Under the Ethics in Government Act, this agency was originally part of the Office of Personnel Management from 1978 until it separated in 1989.  Primary duties The main duties of OGE include the following:  Establishing the standards of conduct for the executive branch; Issuing rules and regulations interpreting the criminal conflict of interest restrictions; Establishing the framework for the public and confidential financial disclosure systems for executive branch employees; Developing training and education programs for use by executive branch ethics officials and employees; Ensuring that individual agency ethics programs are functioning properly by setting the requirements for them, supporting them, and reviewing them.  History Government ethics concerns in the United States were first addressed by Congress in 1853. The act, entitled "An Act to prevent Frauds upon the Treasury of the United States," made it a misdemeanor for "any officer of the United States" or "any Senator or Representative in Congress" to assist in or prosecute "any claim against the United States." Ethics concerns continued to obtain during the Civil War.  Theodore Roosevelt, prior to becoming Vice-President, served as United States Civil Service Commissioner under President Benjamin Harrison. He drew on this experience to help create the modern merit system (now exemplified by the United States Merit Systems Protection Board) for federal employees, as President. This, in turn, led to further developments, including the focus on ethics in Franklin Delano Roosevelt's 1933 inaugural speech. Following Watergate, Congress passed the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 as an attempt to curb the ongoing issues with Ethics in Government.  Office of Director The Director of OGE is appointed by the President after confirmation by the U.S. Senate. The Director of OGE serves a five-year term, thereby overlapping presidential terms, and is subject to no term limit. The rest of the OGE employees are career civil servants. Created by the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, OGE separated from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management in 1989 pursuant to reform legislation. OGE is currently headed by Acting Director Shelley Finlayson, OGE's Chief of Staff and Program Counsel. Finlayson became the Acting Director when the term of Emory Rounds expired on July 12, 2023. Rounds was sworn into office on August 2, 2018.  Issues involving President Trump A series of tweets on 30 November 2016 from the office's official Twitter account praised President-elect Donald Trump for planning to divest his business holdings in order to resolve potential conflicts of interest, following an announcement where Trump reaffirmed his intent to take himself out of business operations, despite him having made no firm commitment to a divestment like selling his businesses or a blind trust. A number of observers speculated that the office's account might have been hacked, a suggestion it later denied. The New York Times suggested that the apparent misunderstanding behind the postings were deliberately intended to reveal the independent agency had advised Trump's legal counsel that a divestment was the only adequate remedy for resolving any conflict, and, by extension, pressure Trump into doing so. A Freedom of Information Act request by news organization The Daily Dot revealed that OGE Director Walter M. Shaub personally ordered officials within the agency to post the nine tweets. Under the Trump Administration, the Office reversed its own internal policy prohibiting anonymous donations from lobbyists to White House staffers who have legal defense funds.  OGE certification of Ethics Agreement Compliance Form On May 11, 2017, the Office of Government Ethics requested the Trump administration and its associates submit a form regarding divestment of assets and possible conflicts of interest.  List of directors of the OGE J. Jackson Walter, 1979–1982 David H. Martin, 1983–1987 Frank Q. Nebeker, 1987–1989 Stephen D. Potts, 1990–2000 Amy Comstock, 2000–2003 Robert Cusick, 2006−2011 Walter Shaub, 2013–2017 David J. Apol, 2017–2018 (acting) Emory A. Rounds III, 2018–2023 Shelley Finlayson (acting), July 13, 2023–  See also Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations Florida Commission on Ethics  References External links  Official website

In cryptography, impossible differential cryptanalysis is a form of differential cryptanalysis for block ciphers. While ordinary differential cryptanalysis tracks differences that propagate through the cipher with greater than expected probability, impossible differential cryptanalysis exploits differences that are impossible (having probability 0) at some intermediate state of the cipher algorithm. Lars Knudsen appears to be the first to use a form of this attack, in the 1998 paper where he introduced his AES candidate, DEAL. The first presentation to attract the attention of the cryptographic community was later the same year at the rump session of CRYPTO '98, in which Eli Biham, Alex Biryukov, and Adi Shamir introduced the name "impossible differential" and used the technique to break 4.5 out of 8.5 rounds of IDEA and 31 out of 32 rounds of the NSA-designed cipher Skipjack. This development led cryptographer Bruce Schneier to speculate that the NSA had no previous knowledge of impossible differential cryptanalysis. The technique has since been applied to many other ciphers: Khufu and Khafre, E2, variants of Serpent, MARS, Twofish, Rijndael (AES), CRYPTON, Zodiac, Hierocrypt-3, TEA, XTEA, Mini-AES, ARIA, Camellia, and SHACAL-2. Biham, Biryukov and Shamir also presented a relatively efficient specialized method for finding impossible differentials that they called a miss-in-the-middle attack. This consists of finding "two events with probability one, whose conditions cannot be met together."  References Further reading Orr Dunkelman (March 1999). An Analysis of Serpent-p and Serpent-p-ns (PDF/PostScript). Rump session, 2nd AES Candidate Conference. Rome: NIST. Retrieved 2007-02-27. E. Biham; A. Biryukov; A. Shamir (May 1999). Cryptanalysis of Skipjack Reduced to 31 Rounds using Impossible Differentials (PDF/PostScript). Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT '99. Prague: Springer-Verlag. pp. 12–23. Retrieved 2007-02-13. Kazumaro Aoki; Masayuki Kanda (1999). "Search for Impossible Differential of E2" (PDF/PostScript). Retrieved 2007-02-27. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help) Eli Biham, Vladimir Furman (April 2000). Impossible Differential on 8-Round MARS' Core (PDF/PostScript). 3rd AES Candidate Conference. pp. 186–194. Retrieved 2007-02-27. Eli Biham; Vladimir Furman (December 2000). Improved Impossible Differentials on Twofish (PDF/PostScript). INDOCRYPT 2000. Calcutta: Springer-Verlag. pp. 80–92. Retrieved 2007-02-27. Deukjo Hong; Jaechul Sung; Shiho Moriai; Sangjin Lee; Jongin Lim (April 2001). Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of Zodiac. 8th International Workshop on Fast Software Encryption (FSE 2001). Yokohama: Springer-Verlag. pp. 300–311. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-12-13. Retrieved 2006-12-30. Raphael C.-W. Phan; Mohammad Umar Siddiqi (July 2001). "Generalised Impossible Differentials of Advanced Encryption Standard". Electronics Letters. 37 (14): 896–898. Bibcode:2001ElL....37..896P. doi:10.1049/el:20010619. Jung Hee Cheon, MunJu Kim, and Kwangjo Kim (September 2001). Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of Hierocrypt-3 Reduced to 3 Rounds (PDF). Proceedings of 2nd NESSIE Workshop. Retrieved 2007-02-27.{{cite conference}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) Jung Hee Cheon; MunJu Kim; Kwangjo Kim; Jung-Yeun Lee; SungWoo Kang (December 26, 2001). Improved Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of Rijndael and Crypton. 4th International Conference on Information Security and Cryptology (ICISC 2001). Seoul: Springer-Verlag. pp. 39–49. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.15.9966. Dukjae Moon; Kyungdeok Hwang; Wonil Lee; Sangjin Lee; AND Jongin Lim (February 2002). Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of Reduced Round XTEA and TEA (PDF). 9th International Workshop on Fast Software Encryption (FSE 2002). Leuven: Springer-Verlag. pp. 49–60. Retrieved 2007-02-27. Raphael C.-W. Phan (May 2002). "Classes of Impossible Differentials of Advanced Encryption Standard". Electronics Letters. 38 (11): 508–510. Bibcode:2002ElL....38..508P. doi:10.1049/el:20020347. Raphael C.-W. Phan (October 2003). "Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of Mini-AES" (PDF). Cryptologia. XXVII (4): 283–292. doi:10.1080/0161-110391891964. ISSN 0161-1194. S2CID 2658902. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-09-26. Retrieved 2007-02-27. Raphael C.-W. Phan (July 2004). "Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of 7-round AES". Information Processing Letters. 91 (1): 29–32. doi:10.1016/j.ipl.2004.03.006. Retrieved 2007-07-19. Wenling Wu; Wentao Zhang; Dengguo Feng (2006). "Impossible Differential Cryptanalysis of ARIA and Camellia" (PDF). Retrieved 2007-02-27. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

Jiří Mádl   (born October 23, 1986, in České Budějovice, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech actor, director and screenwriter. Among his most prominent roles are a part in the 2008 film Night Owls, for which received the Best Actor award at the 2008 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival. Jiří Mádl participated in creating a plagiary of Sarah Silverman's election commercial in 2010. However, people claimed that the plagiary is based on antigerontism not present in the original commercial. He came to prominence when he starred in Czech movies Konfident (The Confidant), Snowboarďáci (Snowboarders), Gympl (The Can), Probudím se Včera (I Wake Up Yesterday), Děti noci (Night Owls) and Hra (The Play). He also appeared in international projects Borgia, Interlude in Prague and Berlin Eins. Mádl made his directorial debut with the movie Pojedeme k moři. His second movie Na Střeše (On the Roof) was released in 2019.  He is the youngest actor to win Crystal Globe for the best actor in the leading role at The Karlovy Vary International Film Festival. He is a member of The European Film Academy and The Council of Dramaturgy at The Zlin Film Festival for Children and Youth.  Charity activities He is the founder of ArteFond, which financially supports children gifted in arts in children´s homes. Jiří and his brother Jan Mádl are organizers of a charity football match in České Budějovice, which has been held since 2009. He has been a patron of The Day of Children´s Oncology in the Czech Republic for several years, and he has been supporting Arpida Centre in České Budějovice.  Other activities In March 2010, he participated together with Martha Issová and Petr Zelenka in the preparations on a political video focused on youth titled “Encourage your grandma and grandpa not to vote for a left wing”. After the release of the video, a disgruntlement aroused, and its content became a huge topic for both personal blogs and online newspapers. He is one of the founders of Hugo Bike. He sold his part of the business in 2016. In 2018, he founded the project "Europe in Data" with Tomáš Jindříšek and Radek Špicar. He has been a shareholder of The Outdoor Trip company since 2018.  Partial filmography 2014 - Vejška 2013 - Colette 2012 - Čtyři slunce 2009 - Peklo s princeznou (It Is Hell With the Princess) - Prince Jeroným Ctrl Emotion 2008 - Night Owls 2007 Gympl 2006 - Bathory - Monk Cyril Snadné je žít (It Is Easy To Live) - Brother of Madona 2005 - Rafťáci - Filip Jak se krotí krokodýli (Taming Crocodiles) - Vašek Rychman Hypnóza (Hypnosis - TV film) - Péťa 2004 - Snowboarďáci (Snowboarders) - Jáchym   == References ==

Ethylmalonic encephalopathy (EE) is a rare autosomal recessive inborn error of metabolism.  Patients affected with EE are typically identified shortly after birth, with symptoms including diarrhea, petechiae and seizures.  The genetic defect in EE is thought to involve an impairment in the degradation of sulfide intermediates in the body.  Hydrogen sulfide then builds up to toxic levels.  EE was initially described in 1994.  Most cases of EE have been described in individuals of Mediterranean or Arabic origin.  Signs and symptoms Neurologic signs and symptoms include progressively delayed development, weak muscle tone (hypotonia), seizures, and abnormal movements. The body's network of blood vessels is also affected. Children with this disorder may experience rashes of tiny red spots (petechiae) caused by bleeding under the skin and blue discoloration in the hands and feet due to reduced oxygen in the blood (acrocyanosis). Chronic diarrhea is another common feature of ethylmalonic encephalopathy.  EE is often identified by urine organic acid analysis, the excretion of ethylmalonic acid, methylsuccinic acid, isobutyrylglycine and isovalerylglucine.  Patients will also often have elevated thiosulphate concentration in their urine. The signs and symptoms of ethylmalonic encephalopathy are apparent at birth or begin in the first few months of life. Problems with the nervous system typically worsen over time, and most affected individuals survive only into early childhood. A few children with a milder, chronic form of this disorder have been reported, and there can be considerable phenotypic variation, even within families.  The life expectancy of individuals with EE is less than ten years.  Pathophysiology Mutations in the ETHE1 gene cause ethylmalonic encephalopathy. The ETHE1 gene makes an enzyme that plays an important role in energy production. It is active in mitochondria, which are the energy-producing centers within cells. Little is known about its exact function, however. Mutations in the ETHE1 gene lead to the production of a defective version of the enzyme or prevents the enzyme from being made. A lack of the ETHE1 enzyme impairs the ability to make energy in mitochondria. Additionally, a loss of this enzyme allows potentially toxic compounds, including ethylmalonic acid and lactic acid, to build up in the body. Excess amounts of these compounds can be detected in urine. It remains unclear how a loss of the ETHE1 enzyme leads to progressive brain dysfunction and the other features of ethylmalonic encephalopathy. Ethylmalonic encephalopathy is an autosomal recessive disorder, which means the defective gene is located on an autosome, and both parents must carry one copy of the defective gene in order to have a child born with the disorder. The parents of a child with an autosomal recessive disorder are usually not affected by the disorder.  Diagnosis Treatment References External links  Ethylmalonic encephalopathy at NLM Genetics Home Reference

The 13th century was the century which lasted from January 1, 1201 (represented by the Roman numerals MCCI) through December 31, 1300 (MCCC) in accordance with the Julian calendar. The Mongol Empire was founded by Genghis Khan, which stretched from Eastern Asia to Eastern Europe. The conquests of Hulagu Khan and other Mongol invasions changed the course of the Muslim world, most notably the Siege of Baghdad (1258) and the destruction of the House of Wisdom. Other Muslim powers such as the Mali Empire and Delhi Sultanate conquered large parts of West Africa and the Indian subcontinent, while Buddhism witnessed a decline through the conquest led by Bakhtiyar Khilji. The earliest Islamic states in Southeast Asia formed during this century, most notably Samudera Pasai. The Kingdoms of Sukhothai and Hanthawaddy would emerge and go on to dominate their surrounding territories. Europe entered the apex of the High Middle Ages, characterized by rapid legal, cultural, and religious evolution as well as economic dynamism. Crusades after the fourth, while mostly unsuccessful in rechristianizing the Holy Land, inspired the desire to expel Muslim presence from Europe that drove the Reconquista and solidified a sense of Christendom. To the north, the Teutonic Order christenized and gained dominance of Prussia, Estonia, and Livonia. Inspired by new translations into Latin of classical works preserved in the Islamic World for over a thousand years, Thomas Aquinas developed Scholasticism, which dominated the curricula of the new universities. In England, King John signed the Magna Carta, beginning the tradition of Parliamentary advisement in England. This helped develop the principle of equality under law in European judisprudence. The Southern Song dynasty began the century as a prosperous kingdom but were later invaded and annexed into the Yuan dynasty of the Mongols. The Kamakura Shogunate of Japan successfully resisted two Mongol invasion attempts in 1274 and 1281. The Korean state of Goryeo resisted a Mongol invasion, but eventually sued for peace and became a client state of the Yuan dynasty. In North America, according to some population estimates, the population of Cahokia grew to be comparable to the population of 13th-century London. In Peru, the Kingdom of Cuzco began as part of the Late Intermediate Period. In Mayan civilization, the 13th century marked the beginning of the Late Postclassic period. The Kanem Empire in what is now Chad reached its apex. The Solomonic dynasty in Ethiopia and the Zimbabwe Kingdom were founded.  Events 1201–1209 1202: Introduction of Liber Abaci by Fibonacci. 1202: Battle of Basian occurs on July 27, between Kingdom of Georgia and Seljuks. 1202: Battle of Mirebeau occurs on August 1, between Arthur I of Brittany and John of England. 1204: Islamization of Bengal by Bakhtiyar Khalji and oppression of Buddhism in East India. 1204: Fourth Crusade of 1202–1204 captures Zadar for Venice and sacks Byzantine Constantinople, creating the Latin Empire. 1204: Fall of Normandy from Angevin hands to the French King, Philip Augustus, end of Norman domination of France. 1205: The Battle of Adrianople occurred on April 14 between Bulgarians under Tsar Kaloyan of Bulgaria, and Crusaders under Baldwin I, (July 1172 – 1205), the first emperor of the Latin Empire of Constantinople. 1206: Genghis Khan is declared Great Khan of the Mongols. 1206: The Delhi Sultanate is established in Northern India under the Mamluk Dynasty. 1209: Francis of Assisi founds the Franciscan Order. 1209: The Albigensian Crusade is declared by Pope Innocent III.  1210s 1210: Qutb-ud-Din Aibak, the first ruler of the Delhi Sultanate, fell down from a horse while playing chovgan (a form of polo on horseback) in Lahore and died instantly when the pommel of the saddle pierced his ribs. 1212: The Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa in Iberia marks the beginning of a rapid Christian reconquest of the southern half of the Iberian peninsula, mainly from 1230–1248, with the defeat of Moorish forces. 1213: The Kingdom of France defeats the Crown of Aragon at the Battle of Muret. 1214: France defeats the English and Imperial German forces at the Battle of Bouvines. 1215: King John signs Magna Carta at Runnymede. 1216: Battle of Lipitsa between Russian principalities. 1216: Maravarman Sundara I reestablishes the Pandya Dynasty in Southern India 1217–1221: Fifth Crusade captures Egyptian Ayyubid port city of Damietta; ultimately the Crusaders withdraw.  1220s C. 1220: The Kingdom of Mapungubwe dissolves 1220: The Kingdom of Zimbabwe begins 1221: Merv, Herat and Nishapur are destroyed in the Mongol conquest of the Khwarazmian Empire. 1222: Andrew II of Hungary signs the Golden Bull which affirms the privileges of Hungarian nobility. 1223: The Signoria, of the Republic of Venice is formed and consists of the Doge, the Minor Council, and the three leaders of the Quarantia. 1223: The Mongol Empire defeats various Russian principalities at the Battle of the Kalka River. 1223: Volga Bulgaria defeats the army of the Mongol Empire at the Battle of Samara Bend. 1225: Trần dynasty of Vietnam was established by Emperor Trần Thái Tông ascended to the throne after his uncle Trần Thủ Độ orchestrated the overthrow of the Lý dynasty. 1227: Estonians are finally subjugated to German crusader rule during the Livonian Crusade. 1227: Genghis Khan dies. 1228–1229: Sixth Crusade under the excommunicated Frederick II Hohenstaufen, who returns Jerusalem to the Crusader States. 1228–1230: First clash between Gregory IX and Frederick II. 1226–1250: Dispute between the so-called second Lombard League and Frederick II.  1230s 1232: The Mongols besiege Kaifeng, the capital of the Jin dynasty, capturing it in the following year. 1233: Battle of Ganter, Ken Arok defeated Kertajaya, the last king of Kediri, thus established Singhasari kingdom Ken Arok ended the reign of Isyana Dynasty and started his own Rajasa dynasty. 1235: The Mandinka tribes unite to form the Mali Empire which leads to the downfall of Takrur in the 1280s. 1239–1250: Third conflict between the Holy Roman Empire and the Papacy. 1237–1240: Mongol Empire conquers Kievan Rus. 1238: Sukhothai becomes the first capital of Sukhothai Kingdom.  1240s 1240: Russians defeat the Swedish army at the Battle of the Neva. 1241: Mongol Empire defeats Hungary at the Battle of Mohi and defeats Poland at the Battle of Legnica. Hungary and Poland ravaged. 1242: Russians defeat the Teutonic Knights at the Battle of Lake Peipus. 1243–1250: Second Holy Roman Empire–Papacy War. 1244: Ayyubids and Khwarezmians defeat the Crusaders and their Arab allies at the Battle of La Forbie. 1249: End of the Portuguese Reconquista against the Moors, when King Afonso III of Portugal reconquers the Algarve. 1248–1254: Seventh Crusade captures Egyptian Ayyubid port city of Damietta, crusaders ultimately withdraw, after the capture of French king Louis IX. Mamelukes overthrow Ayyubid Dynasty.  1250s By 1250, Pensacola culture, through trade, begins influencing Coastal Coles Creek culture. 1250: The Mamluk dynasty is founded in Egypt. 1257: Baab Mashur Malamo established the Sultanate of Ternate in Maluku. 1258: Baghdad captured and destroyed by the Mongols, effective conclusion of the Abbasid Caliphate in Baghdad. 1258: Pandayan Emperor Jatavarman Sundara I invades Eastern India and northern Sri Lanka. 1259: Treaty of Paris is signed between Louis IX and Henry III  1260s 1260: Mongols first major war defeat in the Battle of Ain Jalut against the Egyptians. 1260: Toluid Civil War begins between Kublai Khan and Ariq Böke for the title of Great Khan. 1261: Byzantines under Michael VIII retake Constantinople from the Crusaders and Venice. 1262: Iceland brought under Norwegian rule, with the Old Covenant. 1265: Dominican theologian Thomas Aquinas begins to write his Summa Theologiae. 1268: Fall of the Crusader State of Antioch to the Egyptians.  1270s 1270: Goryeo dynasty swears allegiance to the Yuan dynasty. 1270: The Zagwe dynasty is displaced by the Solomonic dynasty. 1271: Edward I of England and Charles of Anjou arrive in Acre, starting the Ninth Crusade against Baibars. 1272–1274: Second Council of Lyon attempts to unite the churches of the Eastern Roman Empire with the Church of Rome. 1274: The Mongols launch their first invasion of Japan, but they are repelled by the Samurai and the Kamikaze winds. 1274: The Tepanec give the Mexica permission to settle at the islet Cauhmixtitlan (Eagle's Place Between the Clouds) 1275: Sant Dnyaneshwar who wrote Dnyaneshwari (a commentary on the Bhagavad Gita) and Amrutanubhav was born. 1275: King Kertanegara of Singhasari launched Pamalayu expedition against Melayu Kingdom in Sumatra (ended in 1292). 1277: Passage of the last and most important of the Paris Condemnations by Bishop Tempier, which banned a number of Aristotelian propositions 1279: The Song dynasty ends after losing the Battle of Yamen to the Mongols. 1279: The Chola Dynasty in Southern India officially comes to an end.  1280s 1281: The Mongols launch their second invasion of Japan, but like their first invasion they are repelled by the Samurai and the Kamikaze winds. 1282: Aragon acquires Sicily after the Sicilian Vespers. 1284: Peterhouse, Cambridge founded by Hugo de Balsham, the Bishop of Ely. 1284: King Kertanegara launches the Pabali expedition to Bali, integrating Bali into the Singhasari territory. 1285: Second Mongol raid against Hungary, led by Nogai Khan. 1289: The County of Tripoli falls to the Bahri Mamluks led by Qalawun. 1289: Kertanegara insulted the envoy of Kublai Khan, who demanded that Java pay tribute to the Yuan Dynasty.  1290–1300 The Mamluk Dynasty comes to an end and is replaced by the Khalji dynasty. 1290: By the Edict of Expulsion, King Edward I of England orders all Jews to leave the Kingdom of England. 1291: The Swiss Confederation of Uri, Schwyz, and Unterwalden forms. 1291: Mamluk Sultan of Egypt al-Ashraf Khalil captures Acre, thus ending the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem (the last Christian state remaining from the Crusades). 1292: Jayakatwang, duke of Kediri, rebels and kills Kertanegara, ending the Singhasari kingdom. 1292: Marco Polo, on his voyage from China to Persia, visits Sumatra and reports that, on the northern part of Sumatra, there were six trading ports, including Ferlec, Samudera and Lambri. 1292: King Mangrai founds the Lanna kingdom. 1293: Mongol invasion of Java. Kublai Khan of Yuan dynasty China, sends punitive attack against Kertanegara of Singhasari, who repels the Mongol forces. 1293: On 10 November, the coronation of Nararya Sangramawijaya as monarch, marks the foundation of the Hindu Majapahit kingdom in eastern Java. 1296: First War of Scottish Independence begins. 1297: Membership in the Mazor Consegio or the Great Council of Venice of the Venetian Republic is sealed and limited in the future to only those families whose names have been inscribed therein. 1299: Ottoman Empire is established under Osman I. 1300: Islam is likely established in the Aceh region. 1300: Aji Batara Agung Dewa Sakti founds the Kingdom of Kutai Kartanegara/Sultanate of Kutai in the Tepian Batu or Kutai Lama. 1300: The Turku Cathedral was consecrated in Turku. 1300: Sri Rajahmura Lumaya, known in his shortened name Sri Lumay, a half-Tamil and half Malay minor prince of the Chola dynasty in Sumatra established the Indianized Rajahnate of Cebu in Cebu Island on the Philippine Archipelago.  Inventions, discoveries, introductions Early 13th century – Xia Gui paints Twelve Views from a Thatched Hut, during the Southern Song dynasty (now in Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Missouri). The motet form originates out of the Ars antiqua tradition of Western European music. Manuscript culture develops out of this time period in cities in Europe, which denotes a shift from monasteries to cities for books. Pecia system of copying books develops in Italian university-towns and was taken up by the University of Paris in the middle of the century. Wooden movable type printing invented by Chinese governmental minister Wang Zhen in 1298. The earliest known rockets, landmines, and handguns are made by the Chinese for use in warfare. The Chinese adopt the windmill from the Islamic world. Guan ware vase is made, Southern Song dynasty. It is now kept at Percival David Foundation of Chinese Art, London. 1250 – Cliff Palace, Mesa Verde, and other Ancestral Pueblo architectural complexes reach their apex 1280s – Eyeglasses are invented in Venice, Italy. Late 13th century – Night Attack on the Sanjo Palace is made during the Kamakura period. It is now kept at Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Late 13th century – Descent of the Amida Trinity, raigo triptych, is made, Kamakura period. It is now kept at the Art Institute of Chicago. The Neo-Aramaic languages begin to develop during the course of the century.  See also Christianity in the 13th century  References External links James J. Walsh (1907). "The Thirteenth: Greatest of Centuries". nd.edu. Archived from the original on 2017-03-01.

Louis Charles François de Graimberg (30 July 1774 – 10 November 1864), also known as Carl de Graimberg, was a French curator, collector and artist.  Life He was born in the château de Paars, son of Gilles-François de Graimberg de Belleau. He joined the École royale militaire at Rebais but emigrated with his family in May 1791. He fought in the War of the First Coalition in the Compagnie de la noblesse de Champagne and the Chasseurs Nobles de Damas, before becoming an officer in the Régiment de Mortemart. After leaving active service he and his family settled on Guernsey and travelled across Europe. He had a passion for drawing and in 1807 settled in Paris, where he studied under Jean-Victor Bertin. In 1810 he went to Karlsruhe to study under Christian Haldenwang, Baden's court engraver. He settled at Heidelberg (where he later died) to draw the ruins of Heidelberg Castle, devoting the rest of his life to their protection and restoration, creating a series of engravings of them and convincing Leopold, Grand Duke of Baden to repair part of them. He also became a friend of Helmina von Chézy.  Works Das Heidelberger Faß (1816) Notice de l'entreprise des vues de Heidelberg (1820) Collection des Vues de Heidelberg. Dessinées d'apres nature par Charles de Graimberg (1817/18) Vues lythographiées de la ruine, de la ville et des environs de Heidelberg (1820) Notice de l'entreprise des vues de Heidelberg (1820) Livraison des vues de Heidelberg. Dessinées d'apres nature par Charles de Graimberg, mises en perspective par Thomas Alfred Leger, professeur d'architecture à l'université de Heidelberg, et gravées par Charles Haldenwang, graveur de la Cour de Bade (1821-1825) Collection des Vues de Heidelberg, de la vallé du Neckar, de Schwetzingen, de Bade et du Rhin (1825) Collection de vues à l'aquatinte de la ville et du château de Heidelberg (1825) Le guide des voyageurs dans la ruine de Heidelberg d'après un plan du château (1827) Vues du jardin de Schwetzingen (1828) Histoire du gros tonneau de Heidelberg (1828) Ansichten von Heidelberg, Schwetzingen, Baden und vom Rhein (1828/29) Antiquités de Château de Heidelberg, dessinées d'après nature par Charles de Graimberg, mises en perspective par Thomas Alfried Leger, gravées par Texier (1830) Collection de vues à l'aquatinte de Heidelberg et du Rhin (1830) Ansichten des Heidelberger Schlosses, des Wolfsbrunnens, von Stift Neuburg, Dilsberg und Neckarsteinach. Dessiné par Charles de Graimberg (1830) Les grandes Planches du chateau de Heidelberg dessinées et publiées par Charles de Graimberg (1830/31) Die Statuen der achtzehn Stammhäupter des kurpfalz-baierischen Fürstenhauses auf dem Heidelberger Schlosse (1831) Annonce de la troisième exposition des collections d'antiquités palatines et badoises appartenant à Monsr. le Comte Chs. de Graimberg (1831-1840) Le guide de voyageurs dans la ruine de Heidelberg Vues de la Ville, du Château et des Environs de Heidelberg (1837/39) Notice de la Galerie des Antiquités du Château de Heidelberg (1842) Les gravures de Heidelberg et la Galerie des Antiquités du Château de Heidelberg (1847) Guide dans les Ruines du Chateau de Heidelberg, orné d'un plan et de vues gravées. Extrait du guide des voyageurs du professeur Dr. Th. Alfr. Statues des princes de la Maison Palatine-Bavarovise sur la Chapelle du Chateau de Heidelberg  Sources (in German) Anja-Maria Roth, Louis Charles François de Graimberg (1774-1864): Denkmalpfleger, Sammler, Künstler, 1999 (in German) Manfred Berger, Graimberg-Bellau, Maria Antoinette Josephine Theresia Franziska Gräfin von, in "Biographisch-Bibliographisches Kirchenlexikon" (BBKL), 2003

Keretapi Tanah Melayu Berhad (KTMB) (Jawi:كريتاڤي تانه ملايو برحد) or Malayan Railway Limited, colloquially referred to simply as KTM, is the main rail operator in Peninsular Malaysia. The railway system dates back to the British colonial era, when it was first built to transport tin. Previously known as the Federated Malay States Railways (FMSR) the Malayan Railway Administration (MRA), and the Malayan Railway, Keretapi Tanah Melayu acquired its current name in 1962. The organisation was corporatised in 1992, but remains wholly owned by the Malaysian government.  History In 1948, the FMSR was renamed the Malayan Railway. The railways had been devastated by the Japanese invasion of Malaya, and efforts were taken to rebuild the two main lines, but many branch lines were abandoned in the process. The MR began to modernize the equipment with the ordering of diesel locomotives and railcars to replace steam-hauled services, and the first diesel locomotive entered service in 1957. The railcars entered service in 1960, initially on short-haul services. Rapid services were introduced later, cutting travel times from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur down to six hours, which was competitive at the time. MR and later KTM continued ordering more diesel locomotives through the decades, rendering the old steam locomotives redundant. The last steam locomotive was withdrawn from service in 1974. Malayan Railways also operated an air service from 1954 to 1958, known as Federation Air Service. The service was transferred to Malayan Airways in March 1958. The 1970s saw the closure of many branch lines, such as the Batu Arang branch in 1971 and the historic Taiping to Port Weld branch in 1972. The Port Dickson branch was converted to freight-only operation in 1972, although seasonal passenger service did continue for a short while. However, construction did continue for a new line to Subang Airport used to transport fuel, which opened in 1980. Railbuses were introduced in the 1980s for short-haul commuter services. They were deployed in the Klang Valley, on Kuala Lumpur to Ipoh, Ipoh to Butterworth, Gemas to Mentakab and Kulai to Singapore services. On certain routes such as Kulai to Singapore, the railbuses were faster than conventional trains, and in this instance saved travel time of 15 minutes. They lasted until the introduction of KTM Komuter in 1995, which took over commuter services in the Klang Valley. KTM was corporatised in 1992, with all assets now under the ownership and management of the Railway Assets Corporation (RAC). The company runs as a private enterprise although owned and subsidized by the Malaysian government. There were attempts by private companies to take over the operations since then, but such proposals were rejected by the Malaysian government. The 1990s saw the start of another modernization programme. Proposals were made to electrify the West Coast line, which started with the Klang Valley area. Electric trains made their debut on 3 August 1995 with KTM Komuter, with services from Port Klang to Sentul and Rawang to Seremban. Under this programme, existing stations were renovated or rebuilt and new stations were built. The programme was faced with delays throughout the 2000s, with the government postponing many electrification projects. However, from 2007 onwards there was a renewed effort to electrify the west coast line. The completion of such electrification projects from Padang Besar to Gemas to date has allowed the commencement of electrified intercity services in the form of ETS. As the projects were completed in stages, the KTM Komuter and ETS  services were expanded over the years to take advantage of the upgraded lines. The East Coast line, which had not seen upgrades for many years, will see upgrades in the form of rehabilitated track, new DMUs and rebuilt stations by 2021.  Railway network The 1000mm gauge network consists of two main lines and several branch lines.  West Coast Line The West Coast Line runs from the Malaysia-Thailand Border, where it connects with the State Railway of Thailand, to Woodlands Train Checkpoint in Singapore, serving the West Coast states of Peninsular Malaysia. The line runs through most of the major stations in Peninsular Malaysia, such as Gemas, KL Sentral, Ipoh, Butterworth and Padang Besar railway station.  East Coast Line The East Coast Line branches off from the West Coast line at Gemas, running to Tumpat in Kelantan, serving two of Peninsular Malaysia's East Coast states, namely Pahang and Kelantan. Despite its name, it only meets the coast when it reaches Tumpat railway station. It runs through the interior, often through deep jungle, thus earning the nickname Jungle Railway.  Branch lines There are several branch lines running from the two main lines. Some are mixed traffic, catering to passenger and freight traffic while others only cater to freight trains.  Subang Jaya - Terminal Skypark (Passenger - Not In Service  ) Putra - Batu Caves (Passenger) Butterworth - Bukit Mertajam (Mixed Traffic) Port Klang - Pulau Indah (Freight) Butterworth - North Butterworth Container Terminal (Freight) Kempas Baru - Tanjung Pelepas (Freight) Kempas Baru - Pasir Gudang (Freight)  Infrastructure The total network spans 1,641 km (1,020 mi). The total length of the network was 1,700 km (1,100 mi), however due to the closure and subsequent removal of the section of tracks between Tanjong Pagar railway station and Woodlands Train Checkpoint, the network is now shorter. The West Coast line is double tracked and electrified between Padang Besar and Gemas, along with all branch lines used for passenger service along this stretch. As part of the upgrades, all level crossings have been removed and modern signalling installed. The stations along these line are a combination of heritage stations from the colonial era, such as Ipoh Station and Kuala Lumpur Station, and modern stations that were built when the line was double-tracked, such as Taiping, Butterworth, and Arau stations. The remainder of the West Coast main line from Gemas Station to Johor Bahru Sentral Station is still in the process of being double-tracked and electrified under the Gemas - Johor Bahru Electrified Double Track Project. The East Coast line is single-tracked. Having not seen many upgrades over the years, the line is considerably less modern than the upgraded sections of the West Coast line. Level crossings are still prevalent and the traditional token signalling system is still used. The stations along this line are older and smaller. Although the line will remain single-tracked, rehabilitation works are underway to replace the worn track and many stations are also being upgraded. Most of the lines use concrete sleepers, which replaced wooden sleepers from 1982 for the Kerdau-Jerantut and Sungai Yu-Tumpat lines and became more widespread after upgrading works in recent years. When the East Coast Line rehabilitation work and West Coast line double tracking is complete, the network will exclusively use concrete sleepers.  Rolling stock Depots Northern Depot Padang Besar Depot Bukit Tengah Depot Batu Gajah Depot ETS Batu Gajah Depot Central Workshop Batu Gajah  Central Depot KL Sentral Depot Port Klang Depot Sentul Depot  Southern Depot SCS Seremban Depot Gemas Depot Kempas Baru Depot  East Coast Depot Tumpat Depot Kuala Lipis Depot  Services As a national railway company, KTMB is involved in the business of providing rail-based transportation. This can be divided into four major services:  KTM Intercity KTM Intercity (Malay: KTM Antarabandar) is the brand name for long-haul passenger trains that connect cities and major towns served by the KTMB rail network. The service is provided using conventional locomotive-hauled coaches and DMUs. Services span the length of the network, except branch-lines. Daily services convey passengers from: Locomotive-hauled coaches:  Ekspres Rakyat Timuran from JB Sentral in Johor, to Tumpat in Kelantan (Only 1 train overnight service on each direction), Ekspres Selatan JB Sentral in Johor, to Gemas in Negeri Sembilan (3 return trip daily), and Shuttle Tebrau JB Sentral in Johor to Woodlands in Singapore, with 18 Singapore-bound trains and 13 Johor Bahru-bound trains. DMUs:  Shuttle Timuran from Gemas to Tumpat in Kelantan with: Gemas - Kuala Lipis (2 return trips daily) Kuala Lipis - Tumpat (1 return trip daily) Kuala Lipis - Gua Musang (1 return trip daily) Gua Musang - Tumpat (2 return trips daily) Dabong - Tumpat (1 return trip daily) It is possible for customers to rent specialized coaches for event management, conferences and even weddings. It has also been involved in various types of collaborations, joint-promotions, and cross-promotions with all state-level tourism bodies, travel agencies and travel-related industry players in developing rail packages for group travellers.  ETS (Electric Train Service) KTM ETS, which stands for Electric Train Service, is a rapid intercity train service by KTM utilizing electric train-sets. The service started in 2010 using metre-gauge. It currently operates on the lines from Gemas, Negeri Sembilan to Padang Besar, Perlis, Kuala Lumpur to Ipoh, Perak, and Kuala Lumpur to Butterworth, Penang. The trains travel up to 140 km/h (87 mph) on electrified lines. For example, the travel time between KL Sentral and Ipoh is about 2 hours and 20 minutes, which compared favourably with the previous intercity train travel time of 3 hours and 30 minutes while buses can take up to 3 hours. Each train set is capable of carrying up to 350 passengers.  KTM Komuter KTM Komuter is a commuter rail service serving the Klang Valley and Northern part of Malaysia. The central sector consists of the Batu Caves Line, Seremban/Pulau Sebang Line, Port Klang Line and Tanjung Malim Line. Since 2018, KTM Komuter also operates an airport train service - the KL Sentral-Terminal Skypark Line linking KL Sentral to the Subang Airport. The fleet presently consists of Class 83 (three cars) and Class 92 (six cars). The Northern Sector consists of two routes, namely the Butterworth/Bukit Mertajam-Ipoh route as well as the Butterworth-Padang Besar route. KTM Komuter is a heavily utilised mode of transportation by commuters working in Kuala Lumpur as the service is an alternative for road travel, which is occasionally hampered by congestion. Virtually all KTM Komuter stops offer "Park & Ride" parking lots for those who drive to and from the station or halt.  KTM Kargo KTM Kargo provides cargo conveyance services, with a network that spans almost the whole of the KTMB rail network. It is accessible from seaports and Inland Container Terminal (ICT) as well as industrial centres. Cargo services are a major contributor to KTM's overall revenue. Currently, there are 45 cargo train services daily with 23 routes daily, of which about 70% are concentrated in the Northern sector. KTMB runs 37 freight train services daily of which about 80% are concentrated in the Northern sector. The services include  Bukit Ketri - Kuang (Cement) Padang Rengas - Batu Caves (Cement) Padang Rengas - Gelang Patah (Cement) Kanthan - Padang Jawa (Cement) Tasek - Gelang Patah (Cement) Prai - Padang Besar (South Thai Cargo) Pelabuhan Klang - Prai (Landfeeder) Pelabuhan Klang - Padang Besar (Landfeeder) Pelabuhan Klang - Ipoh (Landfeeder) Pelabuhan Klang - Pasir Gudang (Landfeeder) North Port - West Port (Inter Terminal Transfer) West Port - North Port (Inter Terminal Transfer) PTP - Pasir Gudang (Inter Terminal Transfer) Prai - Thungsong (Landbridge) Prai - Surathani (Landbridge) Prai - Padang Besa (Thai) - (Landbridge) Pelabuhan Klang - Hatyai (Landbridge) Sungai Way - Bangkok (Landbridge) Prai - Sungai Buloh (Sugar) Gurun - Butterworth (Urea) Main commodities carried by rail comprise the following:  Maritime containers Landbridge cargos Cement Sugar Gypsum Chemicals Generally, cargo is moved either in open or covered wagons. In the future, all covered wagons will be replaced with containers to allow for flexibility i.e. goods can be dismounted from the train and delivered directly to customers' premises.  Non-rail subsidiaries KTM operates several non-rail subsidiaries. Though considered as non-core businesses, KTMB has benefited from these two operations, which are:  Multimodal Freight (MMF) Multimodal Freight Sdn. Bhd., incorporated in 1988, was licensed as a Government approved Container Haulier in 1991, and went on to obtain the Government approved Multimodal Transport Operator (MTO) status in 1999. The company operates a fleet of 225 Prime Movers and 1,300 trailers of both 20-foot and 40-foot configurations. The fleet is deployed at all major seaports and the inland ports of Ipoh and Nilai.  KTM Distribution (KTMD) Its core business was in the provision of express parcel distribution services to the commercial, industrial and administrative sectors and operated within Malaysia and Singapore. Parcel distribution previously carried out via parcel train cars attached to intercity services where items like parcel and motorbikes could be carried, but this practice has since moved to trucks after rail modernisation and the closure of Tanjong Pagar Railway station in Singapore. Previously, KTMD was also licensed by the Malaysian Communications & Multimedia Commission as a courier service provider, which enabled it to carry letters and documents up to 2 kg (4.4 lb). On 1st November 2022, KTM Distribution announced it would be ending its service after 38 years of operations.  Modernisation Since the corporatisation of KTMB, a programme of modernization has been underway. In 1989, it embarked on the double-tracking and electrification of the trunk line between Rawang and Seremban, the branch lines between Batu Junction and Sentul and between Kuala Lumpur and Port Klang, allowing KTM Komuter services to start running in 1995. Successive double tracking projects has allowed for expansion of electric traction to intercity services in the form of ETS. The entire West Coast line is scheduled to be fully electrified by 2022.  Completed projects Rehabilitation of 327 km (203 mi) long metre-gauge tracks from Paloh to Singapore and from Slim River to the main Seremban line in Malaysia (1988–1994) (US$70 million) Electrification and double tracking of the Rawang-Seremban route (1990–1994) (US$62 million) Electrification and double tracking of the Kuala Lumpur-Port Klang railway route, including spur lines to Subang Jaya and Sentul (1991–1994) (US$66 million) Construction of railway bridges, road over bridges and underpasses along the Rawang-Kajang route (1991–1994) (US$6 million) Construction of railway bridges, road over bridges and underpasses along the Kajang-Seremban route (1991–1994) (US$16 million) Widening of railway tunnels near Seremban (1994–1995) (US$4 million) Construction of railway culverts and box pushing along the Nilai-Seremban route (1994–1995) (US$4 million) Track linking Port Klang to Pulau Indah (1997–1999) (US$4 million) Construction of the Port of Tanjung Pelepas, a rail link in Johor (1999–2002) (US$121 million) Track works at Kuala Lumpur Sentral station (1999–2001) (RM14.3 million) Electrification and double tracking of the Rawang-Ipoh route (2000-2008) (RM2.57 billion) Electrification and double tracking of the Sentul-Batu Caves route (2006-2010) (RM515 million) Electrification and double tracking of the Seremban-Gemas route (2008-2013) (RM3.45 billion) Electrification and double tracking of the Ipoh-Padang Besar route (2008-2014) (RM12.5 billion) Electrification and double tracking of Subang Jaya-Subang Airport route (2013-2018) (RM521 million) A new integrated station named Penang Sentral built which will connect KTM Railway, monorail, bus and ferry service in one building at Butterworth.  Current projects Electrification and double tracking of Gemas-JB route (2018-2025) Rehabilitation of tracks in the Klang Valley(KVDT), Phase 1 (2016-2021) Rehabilitation of tracks in the Klang Valley (KVDT), Phase 2 (2019 - 2030) Rehabilitation of tracks Gemas - Mentakab (Package A) (2016 - 2020) Rehabilitation of tracks Jerantut - Gua Musang (Package B) (2016 - 2020) Rehabilitation of tracks Gua Musang - Tumpat (Package C) (2016 -2020)  Proposed projects Outer Ring Railway Service to connect all suburbs in the Klang Valley without going through the city centre. Construction of the Subang Jaya - Sungai Buloh Link which will act as a freight bypass to allow freight trains to avoid having to enter the Kuala Lumpur Komuter network. Works are divided into two phases; Phase 1 is from Subang Jaya - Subang Airport; Phase 2 is from Subang Airport - Sungai Buloh. As of now, Phase 1 has already been completed. Extension of the ETS service to Hat Yai, Thailand.  Board of directors Chairman: YBhg. Datuk Musa Hj Sheikh Fadzir Chief Executive Officer (CEO): YBrs. Encik Mohd Rani Hisham Samsudin Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director: YBrs. Encik Iszad Jeffri Ismail Independent Non-Executive Director: YBrs. Encik Md Silmi Abd Rahman, YBhg.Datuk Seri Yew Teong Look Heads of Strategic Business Units; KTM Intercity: Puan Nurul Azha Mokmin KTM Komuter: Pn Suhaila Saad KTM Kargo: Encik Hezri Ariffin  Previous and current logos See also Rail transport in Malaysia Prasarana Malaysia MRT Corp Sabah State Railway Transport in Malaysia  References Notes   === Bibliography ===

Rafael Bastos Hocsman, better known as Rafinha Bastos or simply Rafi Bastos (born December 5, 1976) is a Brazilian comedian, actor, journalist and television personality.  Biography Rafinha Bastos was born to a Jewish family in Porto Alegre, Brazil. His ancestors immigrated from Russia. He received a scholarship in 1999 to play basketball at Chadron State College in Chadron, Nebraska. Later, he played basketball in Brazil for SOGIPA, from Porto Alegre, in 2000, helping the team to win the title of the State Basketball Championship in Rio Grande do Sul. Rafinha Bastos was a former host of "CQC" a popular TV show in Brazil. Since May 2010, he also hosts another TV show, "A Liga", which is broadcast by Band TV channel. In 2010, Bastos, together with comedian Danilo Gentili and producer Italo Gusso, opened a comedy club in Brazil, in the city of São Paulo. In 2011, Rafinha became famous worldwide after The New York Times named him the world's most influential person on Twitter. In CQC's September 19, 2011 live broadcast, Bastos made an allegedly dark humor joke about singer Wanessa; when Marcelo Tas, the show's main host, remarked how beautiful the singer looked pregnant, Bastos replied: "Muito. Comeria ela e o bebê." ("Absolutely. I'd do her and the baby"). The joke caused controversy among audiences and was taken with severe criticism. Following the next broadcast on September 26, Bastos was suspended from the show. He was rumoured to have asked his resignation on his contract, but the fact was not confirmed. On October 13, Wanessa and her husband Marcus Buaiz sued Bastos for R$100,000 claiming personal injury. Currently, Rafinha works in stand-up comedy and regularly posts to YouTube. In 2016, it was announced that Bastos would be a host on the Netflix reality show Ultimate Beastmaster.  Television Filmography Theater References External links Official Site (in Portuguese) Rafinha Bastos at IMDb

Celluloid Records, a French/American record label, founded by Jean Georgakarakos (sometimes shortened to Jean Karakos) operated from 1976 to 1989 in New York City, and produced a series of eclectic and ground-breaking releases, particularly in the early to late 1980s, largely under the auspices of de facto in-house producer Bill Laswell. Jean Georgakarakos had previously run a chain of record shops in France, Pop Shop, in cities such as Paris, Lyon, Grenoble and Aix-en-Provence. In 1967, he formed jazz record label BYG Records, which collapsed in the mid-1970s. Karakos also produced albums such as Sonny Sharrock's Monkie-Pockie Boo, and some Art Ensemble Of Chicago, Archie Shepp, Don Cherry Magma and Gong material.  Early releases Celluloid began by releasing American no wave and French avant-garde pop by artists such as Métal Urbain (who were signed to London's Rough Trade Records in the UK), Mathematiques Modernes, James Chance and Alan Vega. It also licensed tracks from other artists and labels, releasing tracks by Soft Cell, The Names, Cabaret Voltaire and Tuxedomoon among others. In the early eighties, Celluloid had a business relationship with Michael Zilkha and Michael Esteban's Ze Records; artists including Was (Not Was), Alan Vega, Suicide and Lydia Lunch released tracks on both labels, sometimes simultaneously, and at least one LP (Vega's eponymous debut) was released with both Celluloid and Ze logos on the sleeve.  Expansion Thanks to the guidance and participation of now rising producer, Bill Laswell, the 1982 catalogue had expanded to encompass early hip-hop artists such as Afrika Bambaataa (under projects Time Zone, and Shango), Beside (Bernard Zekri's wife), Fab 5 Freddy, Grand Mixer DXT, Phase II -all recorded at Martin Bisi's studio called then O.A.O. in Brooklyn NY; and Tribe 2. Much of the hip-hop projects was produced by the group Material, who had already recorded a number of sides for Celluloid, and whose prime mover Bill Laswell would play an increasing role in the label's fortunes for the next five years. Celluloid also released an album of Futuristic Funk by punk/funk performer and cyberpunk writer John Shirley, John Shirley's Obsession, featuring guitarist Sync66 (Chris Cunningham) and Bassist Jerry Antonias (a.k.a. Jerry Agony) both of whom also played with James Chance (a.k.a. James White).  By 1983 the label released KONK Party by New York-based No Wave and Afro Punk group Konk. Increasingly sought out to produce artists on major labels (such as Nona Hendryx, Yellowman and Herbie Hancock, for whom he produced the Grammy-winning "Rockit"), Laswell still found time to produce and play on Celluloid albums by Massacre (a power trio composed of Laswell, Fred Frith and Fred Maher) and his own group Material (whose One Down of 1983 featured a young Whitney Houston, in her first registered song, alongside Archie Shepp, Brian Eno, Bernard Fowler and Tony Thompson of Chic). Karakos next persuaded Laswell to helm the production suite for Celluloid recordings by African artists such as Toure Kunda, Mandingo and Manu Dibango. At the same time he was asked to remix Fela Kuti's Army Arrangement for Celluloid, the first of many such ventures (he would later remix Bob Marley, Miles Davis and Carlos Santana for major labels). Celluloid's prolific output continued throughout the mid-eighties. As well as funding Laswell-related productions by Praxis, Time Zone, Shango, B-Side, Deadline, Last Poets, and even a resurrected Jimi Hendrix (appearing posthumously with Lightnin' Rod on the bluesy 12-inch (300 mm) "Doriella Du Fontaine"), Karakos also started a number of associated labels. OAO Records released much of Material's early output as well as albums by the aforementioned Golden Palominos and Cuban percussionist Daniel Ponce. Moving Target catered for the niche post-rock/reggae market, releasing material by Sly and Robbie, Yellowman, Dennis Bovell, Blurt, The Fleshtones, Splatcats and, incredibly, The Flying Pickets. The short-lived Mercenary Records, meanwhile, released straight-ahead rock albums by the Goo Goo Dolls and Victory. An equally short-lived partnership with Morgan Khan, head of Street Sounds, saw albums by B-Side. Manu Dibango and Mandingo licensed for release in the UK on Khan's Streetwave label.  Decline By 1986, increasing demands on Laswell's time (including work on major label albums by Yoko Ono, Mick Jagger, Motörhead and PiL) meant that his work for Celluloid became more sporadic, though he did produce Horses & Trees for Ginger Baker (whom Laswell had tracked down in Italy and persuaded to play on PiL's Album) and contributed to the Golden Palominos' Blast of Silence and A Dead Horse albums, as well as recording with Last Exit and releasing an album with Peter Brötzmann for Celluloid. The label, meanwhile, continued to release records that did not involve Laswell; this eclectic selection included Eric Dolphy's Iron Man and Conversations, John McLaughlin's Devotion, and Welcome To Dreamland, a compilation of Japanese pop overseen by Fred Frith. African music also featured heavily in Celluloid's mid to late eighties output: Kassav, Toure Kunda, Fela Kuti, and Mahlathini and the Mahotella Queens all released albums through the label. Karakos also kept up his interest in the post-punk scene by releasing a comeback solo album by Television guitarist Richard Lloyd (Field of Fire 1986), as well as a follow-up (Real Time, 1987), and found time to start up two new offshoots, Braziloid and Skaloid, which released, Brazilian and ska music respectively. In conjunction with CBGB, the label issued the 1987 Ritual Tension live album The Blood of the Kid.  Close of business and aftermath In 1989, Karakos having returned to Paris, produced in partnership with film director, Olivier Lorsac, the zouk/Brazilian music influenced, Kaoma band which consisted of ex-Celluloid recording artists from Toure Kunda and the main group to musically represent the repertoire of the lambada dance music explosion in Europe during that same year. Originally intended for Celluloid's Brazilian division, the lambada music compilation and video was eventually released on CBS Records worldwide, reaching no. 1 on top of the pop music charts in Europe. Facing the worldwide success of the hit, and the necessities of its management, Karakos sold in debt Celluloid to American businessman John Matarazzo for a symbolic dollar. Matarazzo  was to repay Celluloid's debt to French Bank Societe Generale, which had mortgaged the whole recording, publishing and branding catalog. As he failed to do so, Societe Generale got back its rights over the catalog and sold it all back to Karakos and his associates of Adageo in 1994. Laswell had decamped to become a producer for hire and would later found Axiom, under the auspices of Island's Chris Blackwell which continued Celluloid's avant-garde musical policy. The French branch of Celluloid continued to license music for compilations on other labels, notably MauMau and Charly, while releases were sporadic at best, and largely aimed at the French market. As of 2023, Karakos Productions & Publishing has gained the rights to exploit the Celluloid NY catalogue.  See also List of record labels   == References ==

The Autorité de la concurrence (French for 'Competition Authority'; French: [ɔtɔʁite də la kɔ̃kyʁɑ̃s]) is France's national competition regulator. Its predecessor, the Competition Council, was established in the 1950s. The Competition Authority is an Independent administrative authority, responsible for preventing anti-competitive practices and monitoring the functioning of markets. It aims to ensure respect for the law linked "to the defense of a sufficient market competition". Although it is not considered a court, it pronounces injunctions, makes decisions, and if necessary, imposes penalties, subject to appeal to the Court of Appeal of Paris and the Court of Cassation. It also issues opinions. The main sources of law of its action are the Commercial Code (Book IV) and Articles 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Its headquarters are in Paris, at 11 Rue de l'Echelle (some services such as the concentrations or the economy are at 6 avenue de l'Opéra)  History Created by a decree of 9 August 1953 in the form of a commission attached to the Minister for the Economy, the Competition Council, as its name officially by the order of December 1, 1986 has become, since January 13, 2009 and according to the law of 4 August 2008 on modernization of the economy, the Competition Authority. His powers have been gradually extended, including the law of 15 March 2001 on new economic regulations (NRE Act) to meet the control objective of the proper competitive functioning of the market.  The technical commission agreements and dominant positions The political will to fight against cartels In the early 1950s, in an economic context and directed nationalized since the Great Depression 2, as well as agreements with professional way since the Second World War with the Vichy regime and the German planning of the French economy the government attention focuses on anti-competitive practices. The persistence of corporatist practices, after the Vichy regime, helping to change the vision of the government on the effects of horizontal agreements between competitors 3. The government decided to take measures against price fixing 4, down the price system set by the administration since Ordinance No. 45-1483 of 30 June 1945 adopted in the aftermath of the war. Thus, Law No 52-835 of 18 July 1952 enriches the list of anti-competitive practices in the order of 30 June 1945. In 1953, both Houses of Parliament tear around the passage of a law establishing the status of cartels. In January 1950, a bill introduced by Henri Teitgen is the establishment of a specialized court for review of agreements to curb unlawful agreements but to allow those deemed consistent with the public interest 3. Other projects submitted tend to amend Articles 419 and 420 of the penal code to punish agreements. Asked for an opinion, to inform parliamentary debates 5, the Economic Council (forerunner of the present EESC) rejects the draft Henri Teitgen, due to the exorbitant powers of its specialized jurisdiction of the project and in the absence of judicial redress against its decisions. The resistance of both Houses encourages the government to override opposition parliamentarians 4  : Article 7 of the Framework Law No. 53-611 of 11 July 1953 empowers the government to take measures "to maintain or restore a free industrial and commercial competition" 6 , according to the practice of decree laws in force under the Fourth Republic. The French legislation also seemed upset with the Havana Charter.  Creation of the commission by the decree of 9 August 1953 As part of the policy of "economic and financial recovery" conducted by the Government of Joseph Laniel, was adopted on the basis of the aforementioned law decree No. 53-704 of 9 August 1953, to "put an end to practices that by restricting fair trade competition, oppose any price drop" 7. The decree establishes the principle of "prohibition of all practices that thwart the full exercise of competition by opposing the lowering of cost prices or selling prices". This Order amends the order of 30 June 1945 which established a price system directed to curb high inflation. To punish these offenses, is created a technical commission agreements, composed of members of the State Council, judges of the Supreme Court and the Court of Auditors , as well as qualified persons, attached to the Minister of economy. This committee is responsible for examining possible violations of rules prohibiting cartels, and appreciates the possible justifications that were made to them. Entering either the ordinary courts or by the Minister of Economy, the Technical Commission of the agreements provides an opinion to the minister who has the exclusive power to transmit or not the case to the prosecutor or impose fines. The technical commission agreements is then an external expert body 8 with the aim to inform decisions of the Minister for the Economy 9. The decree, adopted on the report of Edgar Faure, stems from an initiative of the Director of prices, Louis Franck, who obtained the Secretary of State for Trade introducing a device to fight against cartels, while the attention of the latter is rather addressed the discriminatory practices and price fixing 3. The inaugural session of the Technical Commission of the agreements was held on April 9, 1954, but it was not until 23 April 1955 that really began consideration by the board, business submitted to it for review 2.  Extension of the competence of the technical committee to dominant positions Law n ° 63-628 of 2 July 1963 supplementary budget for 1963 extends the jurisdiction of the Technical Commission of the agreements with the dominant positions of practices characterized by "a monopoly or a manifest concentration of economic power, when these activities the object or may have the effect of impeding the normal operation of the market " (Article 3) 10 .  The Competition Commission (1977–1986) Following the first oil crisis in 1973, which deeply undermines the planning approach adopted in France since the Liberation, the second government of Raymond Barre progressively reduced price controls. Several laws will strengthen the framework of the French competition law. Law n ° 77-806 of 19 July 1977 creates the Competition Commission, and extends its jurisdiction on two points. Henceforth, the Competition Commission knows in an advisory capacity to "all questions concerning competition referred to it by the Government", and advises on transactions or projects of concentration. In an Assembly decision of 13 March 1981, the Council of State denied him the jurisdiction of qualifying, but the class as "administrative agency". Subsequently, Law No. 85-1408 of 30 December 1985 on improving competition qualifies for the first time the Commission of " independent administrative authority".  The Competition Council (1986–2009) The establishment of the Competition Council by the order of December 1, 1986 Following the political change of 1986, resulting in the first cohabitation, Ordinance No. 86-1243 of December 1, 1986 repeals the provisions of the Ordinance of 30 June 1945 which established an administrative price control. Now prices are "freely determined by competition". The ordinance establishes the Competition Council consisting of sixteen members, appointed for a term of six years on a proposal of the Minister of Economy. The Competition Council now has its own power of decision and sanctions on anticompetitive practices, although the power of decision in economic concentrations still held by the Minister of Economy, the Competition Council did in this case an advisory role. The ordinance introduced other important innovations, namely enlargement, especially to businesses, Council referral opportunities, transferring the sanctioning power of the Minister Council in the economy, together with a control of the judicial court and a better procedure guaranteeing the rights of interested parties. The law ratifying the order of December 1, 1986 provided for the transfer of contentious decisions of the Competition Council to the judicial judge, notwithstanding the traditional jurisprudential criteria that would have involved the jurisdiction of administrative courts. Seized under its constitutional review, the Constitutional Council clears the fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic that "with the exception of matters reserved by nature to the judiciary, is ultimately the responsibility of the administrative court the annulment or alteration of decisions taken in the exercise of public powers by the authorities exercising executive power, agents, local authorities of the Republic or public bodies under their authority or control" (decision No. 86-224 DC of 23 January 1987).  Successive expansion of the powers of the Competition Council From 1986, the Competition Council sees its gradually extended powers. Law No. 92-1282 of 11 December 1992 empowers the Council to do under Articles 85 to 87 of the Treaty of Rome, which include prohibitions of dominant positions and agreements 17. LawGalland of 1 st July 1996 expands the adjudicatory functions of the Competition Council to predatory pricing 18. The law New Economic Regulations (called NRE) of 15 May 2001 introduced numerous procedural innovations for the benefit of the Competition Council: the latter may enter into transactions with sanctioned companies, or make use of leniency procedures 19. The law 2003-706 of August 1, 2003 of Financial Security integrates the control of bank mergers in the common competition law, by giving the Minister of Economy and when asked for an opinion to the Council competition, the authority to deal with competition problems that would arise for bank mergers 20 .  Since 2009 the Competition Authority The law modernizing the economy of 4 August 2008 transfer to the new Competition Authority all the old powers of the Competition Council, by adding new skills. Some of these changes were advocated by the Attali Commission and by the OECD, in that they were intended to enhance efficiency in competitive market regulation 21.  Transfer of control of concentrations One of the great innovations of the law modernizing the economy of 4 August 2008 (Article 96) is to transfer to the new Competition Authority, established as an independent administrative authority, control of concentrations 22. This reform helps to bring the French model of regulation of competition from that in force in other states in Europe, entrusting to an independent authority specialized control of these operations 23. Now, subject to criteria related to turnover of the undertakings concerned (which would result if any competence of the European Commission), the Competition Authority is the competent authority of common law in this area. The Minister of Economy may, however, once the decision of the Commission made, discuss and approve the transaction in question for "reasons of general interest other than maintaining competition" into such industrial development, the competitiveness of enterprises in question in the light of international competition or the creation or maintenance of employment 24.  Possibility of issuing opinions and recommendations The LME Act allows the Competition Authority on its own initiative in opinion on any competition issue and make recommendations to improve the market competition to the Minister responsible for the sector 25. The opinion of the Authority are usually very noticeable, especially one made in September 2014 on concessions highway 26, 27, 28.  Composition of the Competition Authority President and vice-presidents The president of the Competition Authority is appointed for a term of five years by decree on the report of the Minister of Economy. The chairman is appointed "because of its expertise in the legal and economic fields" 29. However, since 1963, all presidents of the administrative authority were state councilors. The current president of the Authority Bruno Lasserre, state councilor and vice-presidents are Claire Favre, Elisabeth Flüry-Herard, Emmanuel Combe and Thierry Dahan 30.  College members The Competition Authority is composed of a college of 17 members, 41 appointed by decree on report of the Minister of Economy, for a period of five years (renewable term):  President ; six members or former members of the State Council, the Supreme Court, the Court of Auditors or other jurisdictions; five persons chosen for their expertise in economic, competition and consumption; five persons employed or formerly operating in the production sector, distribution, crafts, services or the professions. Within the council, there is a standing committee composed of the president and four vice presidents. The Minister of Economy called:  a government commissioner to the Board, namely the Director General of Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Control ( DGCCRF ). the general rapporteur on the proposal of the Board. The other rapporteurs, who will present the case and the case to the Competition Authority, appointed by the General Rapporteur.  Powers of the Competition Authority National allocations of the Competition Authority The competition law applies "to all production, distribution and services, including those that are made public persons, particularly in the context of public service delegation agreements", according to Article L. 410-1 of the commercial code. Article L. 461-1 of the Code provides that the Competition Authority "ensures free competition." As such, the Competition Authority has several skills.  Sanction anti competitive practices The Competition Authority is mainly responsible for repressing anti-competitive business practices, including agreements and abuse of dominant position . It may impose two sanctions:  injunctions to stop the practice within a specified period, real non-punitive sanction. according to Article L.464-2 of the Commercial Code, the Competition Authority "may impose a financial penalty applicable either immediately or for breach of injunctions". The sanctions say it is proportional to the seriousness of the charges, the importance of the damage on the economy.  Referral to the Competition Authority Several people can enter the Competition Authority. Historically, only the Minister of the economy, companies and local authorities, professional organizations and trade unions, approved consumer organizations, and chambers of commerce and industry for the interest they charge could grasp the Authority, outside of its self-referral option. Law n ° 2012-1270 of 20 November 2012 on economic regulation overseas are added regions and communities overseas with special status.  Critique of self-referral to the Competition Authority Section 11 of the Ordinance of 1 st December 1986 provided for the right to self-referral to the Competition Authority, transposed provision in Article L. 462-5 of the Commercial Code. This ability to self-referral has been criticized many times, because of potential damage to the impartiality of the Authority. In a first decision Company Canal Plus Group and Vivendi Universal issued October 12, 2012 (Decision No. 2012-280 QPC), the Constitutional Council , however, felt that the right to self-referral to the Competition Authority proposed by its General rapporteur, "not [led] the authority not to prejudge the reality of breaches examine" and considered the article in question complies with the Constitution 42 . In a second decision Grands Moulins de Strasbourg SA Companies rendered October 14, 2015 (Decision No. 2015-489 QPC), the Constitutional Council ruled that the decision of the Competition Authority self-grabs, "decision which the Council exercises its supervisory role of well functioning markets, has neither the purpose nor the effect of a practice charge with a particular undertaking "  ; therefore, it does not lead to prejudge actual practices that may give rise to sanctions pronounced 43 .  Sanctions may be imposed In case of finding of an anti competitive practice, the Competition Authority may order offenders terminate or impose special conditions and, where appropriate, impose a financial penalty applicable either immediately or in the event of breach of injunctions or in case of non-compliance with commitments accepted 44 . If the offender is not a business, the maximum amount of the penalty is three million. The maximum amount of the penalty is for a company 10% of the worldwide turnover before tax achieved the highest during one of the years ended since the year preceding that in which the practices were implemented. In a ruling Association Accountant Media Association issued January 7, 2016 (Decision No. 2015-510 QPC), the Constitutional Council considers that by providing maximum financial penalty in absolute value when the person who committed the offense is not a business, then this maximum is set as a percentage of revenue when that person is a company, the legislator has introduced a difference of treatment directly related to the object of the law establishing it, and that he referred to specific legal categories for determining the penalty with sufficient certainty. In doing so, the Constitutional Court dismisses the grievance ignorance of equality and principle of legality of criminal offenses and penalties 45. Moreover, the Competition Authority may decide that the decision, in full or in excerpt will be published, distributed or displayed, the cost then being borne by the person concerned.  Advisory activity of the Competition Authority The Competition Authority also plays an advisory role. As such, it must be consulted before any regulatory price. It can also be consulted on all matters of competition, especially when monitoring concentrations.  Community powers of the Competition Authority Obligation to apply Community competition law in the event of allocation of intra-Community trade The entry into force on 1 January 2004 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 made it mandatory for the authorities regulating competition in the member states of the European Union , the application of Community competition rules. National competition authorities (NCAs) when they apply national law on cartels and dominant positions must also apply EU competition law to practices that are "likely to affect trade between Member States." Regulation of 16 December 2002 is decentralizing the application of competition law in order to increase its effectiveness. This is to allow the European Commission to focus on large-scale operations, and use the capacities of national competition authorities, often better placed to hear an anti-competitive practice. In addition, the settlement ends the exemption monopoly held by the European Commission: now, the national competition authorities may make pursuant to Article 101 paragraph 3 of the Treaty of Rome to exempt contribution agreements to economic progress.  The insertion of the Competition Authority from the European Competition Network (ECN) Regulation 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 sets up a European Competition Network (ECN), led by the European Commission, and for the optimal application of Community competition law.  Budget In 2014, the budget of the Competition Authority amounted to €20.7 million, including 16.2 million for staff costs and EUR 4.5 million for operating expenses 46 .  Decisional practice of the Competition Authority 22 July 2021 : The Autorité fines several eyeglasses manufacturers for imposing retail prices to opticians. 24 June 2019 : The Autorité de la concurrence fines French notaries and County Court bailiffs for anti-competitive practices. 21 March 2017: Engie re Natural Gas and Electricity The Autorité de la concurrence fines Engie 100 million euros for breaches of L. 420-2  of the commercial code. December 17, 2015: Abuse of dominant position in the phone market "Enterprise"  [ archive ] . The Autorité de la concurrence fines Orange (formerly France Telecom) to 350 million euros for having implemented four anti-competitive practices in the markets for fixed and mobile services to customers "business", and imposes injunctions aimed at immediately restore a situation of fair competition on these markets. December 8, 2011: Cartel of laundry in France December 20, 2007: Price agreement in the toy distribution sector  [ archive ] . The Competition Council sanctions for 37 million 5 toy manufacturers and 3 distributors. Chicco - Baby de France, France Goliath, France Hasbro, Lego SAS MegaBrands Europe NV and Carrefour France, Maxi Toys France and EPSE-JouéClub. March 22, 2006: Case of software Drapo  [ archive ] . The Competition Council condemns 34 construction companies for widespread agreement on procurement of Ile-de-France and sanctions to the tune of 48.5 million euros. 15 December 2005. The Competition Council sanctioned 6 construction companies  [ archive ] . specialized in the supply of asphalt for a total amount of 33.6 million euros. 1 st December 2005: Agreement on the mobile phone market  [ archive ] . The Competition Council sanctions to the tune of 534 million euros the companies Orange France, SFR and Bouygues Telecom 60 . May 13, 2005: Highway A 84 called "Route Estuaries"  [ archive ] . The Competition Council condemns 21 construction companies for sanctions and agreement for 17 million euros. 1 st April 2003: Distribution of fuels on motorways: the Competition Council sanctioned the main oil groups  [ archive ] . The Competition Council sanctions leading oil groups. They imposed fines totaling 27 million euros. September 23, 2002: price agreement in the ball bearings sector  [ archive ] . The Competition Council sanctions the leading manufacturers for a total of about 19 million. July 3, 2002: appliances and audiovisual devices: the Competition Council sanctions an agreement between major retailers and some manufacturers  [ archive ] . The Competition Council sanctioned the manufacturer of household appliances Thomson and distributors Fnac, Darty, Euromarket, Connection, Camif and Conforama for a total of about 34 million.  See also Competition and Markets Authority (United Kingdom) Bundeskartellamt (Germany)  Notes References Thomas Pez, "    ," Nouveaux Cahiers of the Constitutional Council , n o  49,October 2015, P.  44-57 ( read online  [ archive ] ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.economie.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) b and c Claude Didry, Frédéric Marty, OFCE,201527 p.( Read online  [ archive ] ) ( in ) Stefan A. Riesenfeld, "    " , California Law Review , n o 48,October 1960, P.  574-595 ( read online  [ archive ] ) Alain Chatriot "    ," History, Economy and Society , vol.  27 th  year1 st March 2008, P.  7-22 ( ISSN  0752-5702 , read online  [ archive ] ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) Michael Wise, "    ", Journal of Law and Competition Policy , vol.  Flight. 71 st March 2005, P.  7-91 ( ISSN  1560-7798 , read online  [ archive ] ) ↑ Michel Glais, "    ," Industrial Economics Review , n o  1,1993, P.  45-83 ( read online  [ archive ] ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.autoritedelaconcurrence.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) ↑ NEXINT, "    "  [ archive ] , on www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr ,January 23, 1987 (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    ," Economic Studies OECD , vol.  No. 5,1 st May 2009, P.  113-146 ( ISSN  0304-3363 , read online  [ archive ] ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 10 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] (accessed 10 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance (accessed 10 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.autoritedelaconcurrence.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on lemonde.fr ,September 18, 2014 (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on SudOuest.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.la-croix.com (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) http://www.autoritedelaconcurrence.fr/user/standard.php?id_rub=33  [ archive ] "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] ,March 3, 1993 (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr ,July 29, 1998 (accessed 12 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on www.legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 12 January 2016 ) ( read online  [ archive ] ) Competition Authority, Missions, Presentation  [ archive ] www.authoritedelaconcurrence.fr. site of the Competition Authority. NEXINT, "    "  [ archive ] , on www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr ,October 12, 2012 (accessed 13 January 2016 ) NEXINT, "    "  [ archive ] , on www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr ,October 14, 2015 (accessed 13 January 2016 ) "    "  [ archive ] , on Legifrance.gouv.fr (accessed 14 January 2016 ) NEXINT, "    "  [ archive ] , on www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr ,January 7, 2016 (accessed 17 January 2016 )  read online  [ archive ] Council Notice of competition  [ archive ]

The Moderate Party (Italian: Partito Moderato), collectively called Moderates (Italian: Moderati), was an Italian pre-Unification political rally, active during the Risorgimento (1815–1861). The Moderates were never a formal party, but only a movement of liberal-minded reformist patriots, usually secular, from politics, military, literature and philosophy.  History Since the Congress of Vienna, inside the Italian Peninsula was diffused a reformist and Romantic moment, inspired from Jacobonism and Bonapartism and exposed in the revolutions of 1820 against the reactionary Congress System. Many patriots, soldiers and intellectuals who took part in the revolutions were defined as "moderates". The Moderates, with time, demarcated themselves from radical and republican organizations like Giuseppe Mazzini's Young Italy, Carboneria and others. The moderates and radicals mainly disagreed on the methods to unite Italy: the Moderates supported secret pacts and strategic alliances between the patriotic movement and the other European powers, whereas Mazzini's supporters called a popular revolution to establish a democratic Republic.  After the failure of the Italian Revolutions of 1848, attempted by Mazzinians and republicans, the republican ideas declined for the Moderates' agenda. During this time, several politicians of other Italian states are members of the group: in the Kingdom of Sardinia, the leaders were Massimo d'Azeglio and Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, representing the parliamentary Right, and Urbano Rattazzi, representing the Left; in the Papal States the reform movement was headed by Terenzio della Rovere and Pellegrino Rossi, the last murdered by a republican plot in 1848; in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies prominent moderates were brothers Bertrando and Silvio Spaventa. When the Kingdom of Italy was founded in 1861, the moderates merged in the Historical Right and Left, the two Piedmontese parliamentary group that monopolized the politics of the new Italian state for almost half-century.  Tendencies and members Differently by democrats and radical republicans, the Moderates were only circles of intellectuals, aristocrats, soldiers and businessmen with patriotic tendencies. The Moderate Party was not cohesive because its members were of different political ideologies, ranging from continental liberalism to soft conservatism. Initially, the party was not too nationalist, preferring a federation or coalition between the several Italian states, and support both reformist and law and order policies, different by the republicans like Mazzini. When the possibility of an unified Italian state became real, a new question of division was the form that the new Italian state would have. Someone like Vincenzo Gioberti supported a confederation of states, led by the Pope. other simply claimed for a centralized state headed by a monarch, without differences if a Savoy or other. There were three main tendencies inside the movement:  References See also Liberalism and radicalism in Italy

Robert Jan (Rob) Mokken (born 28 April 1929) is a Dutch political scientist and Emeritus Professor of Political Science and Methodology at the University of Amsterdam.  Biography Born in Batavia, Dutch East Indies, Mokken began his studies at the Royal Netherlands Naval College in Den Helder from 1949 to 1952. He proceeded to study at the University of Amsterdam, where in 1957 he obtained his BA in Political and Social sciences, in 1961 his MA, and in 1970 his PhD with the thesis entitled "A theory and procedure of scale analysis: with applications in political research" under the supervision of Jan Hemelrijk. In 1954, Mokken started as a research assistant at the University of Amsterdam. From 1961 to 1966, he worked at the Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica. After another three years at the University of Amsterdam as a research assistant, in 1970, he was appointed Professor at the University of Amsterdam in Political and Social Science, and since 1979 in Political Science and Methodology. Among his about 20 doctoral students were Frans Stokman (1977), Robert de Hoog (1978), Willem Saris (1979), and Meindert Fennema (1981). In 1994, he retired and is still working as an ICT consultant concerning statistical and quantitative methods. Mokken published the book Theory and Procedure of Scale Analysis, in 1971, in which he proposed a measure later named after him: the Mokken scale. In 1990, Mokken was awarded a knighthood in the Order of Orange-Nassau.  Publications Mokken has published several books and many articles. A selection:  1971. A theory and procedure of scale analysis with applications in political research 1975. Graven naar macht: op zoek naar de kern van de Nederlandse economie. With H.M. Helmers, R.C. Plijter & F.N. Stokman. 1997. Technologie en management: bestuursstructuren in industriële ondernemingens. With B.L. Icke and H. Disk.  References External links Robert J(an) Mokken profile, University of Amsterdam Prof. dr. R.J. Mokken, 1929 - at the University of Amsterdam Album Academicum website

Central Coast Football is a governing body and football (soccer) competition located in the Central Coast region of New South Wales. Its administrative headquarters are based at Pluim Park, Lisarow, New South Wales. The association consists of a Premier League, a Division 1 and ten all ages competitions which correspond to tiers five to seventeen on the Australian soccer pyramid. Clubs are based all across the Central Coast.  History The Central Coast Soccer Association was formed in 1963 with the first year of top-flight competition in 1965. It was later changed to Central Coast Football as the use of the word 'football' replaces 'soccer' in Australia. In January 2022, CCF announced that the association was disaffiliating with Football Australia and Football NSW. This is due to CCF believing that the FA and FNSW do not value CCF and don't invest in grassroots football on the Central Coast. This has led to CCF being essentially banned from Football Australia and Football NSW competitions. In March 2022, following months of negotiation, Football Australia announced that CCF would remain as a member of the FIFA affiliated Australian football family. This allowed CCF clubs and players to participate in FNSW and FA competitions.  Teams and structure Central Coast Football is responsible for overseeing all men's, women's and junior's competitions. Ranging from small sided under 5's competitions to Premier league football and all the way up to over 45's men's football. They oversee over 15000 players, along with this they assist with the running of Central Coast Football Referees Branch, manage over 700 competitive fixtures a weekend with around 250 referees.  Tiers and Leagues The Central Coast Premier League sits at the fifth tier of the Australian football league system, Division one sits at the sixth tier, while the ten all age divisions stretch from tiers 7 to 17. Central Coast Premier League (MPL) operates with 10 teams playing an 18 round home & away season, with the bottom two teams being relegated every year down to Division one. The competition operates with a 'club championship', combining points totals from 1st grade, Reserve grade and 21's (third grade). First grade points are multiplied by four, reserve grade by two and 21's by 1. At the end of the season the top four teams in each grade (1st, Reserve & 21's) compete in their own respective finals series with the winner declared Champions. The team that finishes top of the table in each respective grade at the end of the season is declared as the premiers  Division one is the second division of men's 1st grade football, with 10 clubs also playing an 18 round home & away season. The top two teams at the end of the season in the combined club championship achieve promotion to the Central Coast Premier League (MPL). Division one teams competes with only a First grade and Reserve competition, lacking the 21's as seen in MPL, this allows for smaller clubs to have the ability to compete in grade football. As with MPL division one has a finals series for the top 4 teams in both First and Reserve grade. The team that finishes top of the table in each respective grade at the end of the season is declared as the premiers.  Central Coast Women's Premier League (WPL) is the top division of women's football on the central coast sitting at the fourth tier of the Australian female football pyramid. During 2024 the competition runs as a 7 team competition, playing a 21 round home and away season, followed by the top 4 teams qualifying for the finals series with the winner being declared as champion. The team that finishes top of the table at the end of the season is declared as the premiers, unlike the men's reflective competitions the women's competition controversially is without a reserve grade leaving just the clubs first grade sides competing.  Teams There are a total of 23 clubs competing across all CCF tiers and divisions.  Defunct Teams  Competing Mens Premier League Clubs in 2024 Honours Performance in FFA Cup/Australia Cup References External links Central Coast Football Official Website

On the Path (Bosnian: Na putu) is a 2010 Bosnian drama film written and directed by Jasmila Žbanić. The film was screened in competition at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival. At the 7th Yerevan Golden Apricot International Film Festival the film won the FIPRESCI Prize.  Plot Luna and Amar are a young Bosniak couple living in Sarajevo. Both have traumatic memories from the Bosnian War of the 1990s. Luna had seen her parents killed by an anti-Muslim militia in Bijeljina, and had come to Sarajevo with her grandparents as a child refugee. Amar had served as a soldier in the war and lost his brother. At present, however, they have apparently built up a successful life - she as an air hostess with B&H Airlines, he as an air traffic controller at the Sarajevo International Airport. When she comes back from a flight they make love passionately and go to have a good time at a local nightclub. Though identifying as "Muslims" in the context of Bosnia's ethnic set-up, religion plays no part in their life. In fact, Amar drinks alcohol a bit too much - which is forbidden by Islam - and it is this which begins to put their relationship under strain. First of all, Amar loses his job for being drunk at work. Luna is very worried and has little hope of realizing her fragile dream of having a child with Amar. But her fears for their future increase when Amar takes on a well-paid job in a Muslim community hours away from where they live. Only after quite some time has elapsed during which they have had no contact with each other, is Luna allowed to visit Amar in this community of conservative Wahhabis in its idyllic lakeside location. She notices that the men and veiled women live in strict segregation and are closely watched. Luna asks Amar to return home with her but Amar insists that life in this isolated community of faithful followers has brought him peace and also keeps him from drinking. When he returns home a few weeks later, Luna realizes that Amars attitude to religion has fundamentally changed. Amar claims that his only interest is to become a better person, but Luna finds it extremely difficult to follow his line of thinking. She begins to question everything that she has believed in, even her desire to have a child. As the wounds of a tragic war-filled past continue to haunt her, Luna tears herself apart searching if love is truly enough to keep her and Amar together on the path to a lifetime of happiness.  Cast Zrinka Cvitešić Leon Lučev Mirjana Karanović Nina Violić Jasna Beri Jasna Žalica Mirvad Kurić Sebastian Cavazza Marija Kohn Izudin Bajrović Vanessa Glodjo Ermin Bravo  References External links On the Path at IMDb

Electrocardiography in suspected myocardial infarction has the main purpose of detecting ischemia or acute coronary injury in emergency department populations coming for symptoms of myocardial infarction (MI). Also, it can distinguish clinically different types of myocardial infarction.  Technical issues The standard 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG) has several limitations. An ECG represents a brief sample in time. Because unstable ischemic syndromes have rapidly changing supply versus demand characteristics, a single ECG may not accurately represent the entire picture. It is therefore desirable to obtain serial 12 lead ECGs, particularly if the first ECG is obtained during a pain-free episode. Alternatively, many emergency departments and chest pain centers use computers capable of continuous ST segment monitoring. The standard 12 lead ECG also does not directly examine the right ventricle, and is relatively poor at examining the posterior basal and lateral walls of the left ventricle. In particular, acute myocardial infarction in the distribution of the circumflex artery is likely to produce a nondiagnostic ECG. The use of additional ECG leads like right-sided leads V3R and V4R and posterior leads V7, V8, and V9 may improve sensitivity for right ventricular and posterior myocardial infarction. In spite of these limitations, the 12 lead ECG stands at the center of risk stratification for the patient with suspected acute myocardial infarction. Mistakes in interpretation are relatively common, and the failure to identify high risk features has a negative effect on the quality of patient care.  Main patterns The 12 lead ECG is used to classify MI patients into one of three groups:  those with ST segment elevation or new bundle branch block (suspicious for acute injury and a possible candidate for acute reperfusion therapy with thrombolytics or primary PCI), those with ST segment depression or T wave inversion (suspicious for ischemia), and those with a so-called non-diagnostic or normal ECG. However, a normal ECG does not rule out acute myocardial infarction.  ST elevation MI The 2018 European Society of Cardiology/American College of Cardiology Foundation/American Heart Association/World Health Federation Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction for the ECG diagnosis of the ST segment elevation type of acute myocardial infarction require new ST elevation at J point of at least 1mm (0.1 mV) in two contiguous leads with the cut-points: ≥1 mm in all leads other than leads V2-V3. For leads V2-V3: ≥2 mm in men ≥40 years, ≥2.5 mm in men <40 years, or ≥1.5 mm in women regardless of age. This assumes usual calibration of 1mV/10mm. These elevations must be present in anatomically contiguous leads. (I, aVL, V5, V6 correspond to the lateral wall; V3-V4 correspond to the anterior wall ; V1-V2 correspond to the septal wall; II, III, aVF correspond to the inferior wall.) This criterion is problematic, however, as acute myocardial infarction is not the most common cause of ST segment elevation in chest pain patients. Over 90% of healthy men have at least 1 mm (0.1 mV) of ST segment elevation in at least one precordial lead. The clinician must therefore be well versed in recognizing the so-called ECG mimics of acute myocardial infarction, which include left ventricular hypertrophy, left bundle branch block, paced rhythm, early repolarization, pericarditis, hyperkalemia, and ventricular aneurysm.  There are heavily researched clinical decision tools such as the TIMI Scores which help prognose and diagnose STEMI based on clinical data. For example, TIMI scores are frequently used to take advantage of EKG findings to prognose patients with MI symptoms. Based on symptoms and electrocardiographic findings, practitioners can differentiate between unstable angina, NSTEMI and STEMI, normally in the emergency room setting. Other calculators such as the GRACE and HEART  scores, assess other major cardiac events using electrocardiogram findings, both predicting mortality rates for 6 months and 6 weeks, respectively.  Typical progression Sometimes the earliest presentation of acute myocardial infarction is the hyperacute T wave, which is treated the same as ST segment elevation. In practice this is rarely seen, because it only exists for 2–30 minutes after the onset of infarction. Hyperacute T waves need to be distinguished from the peaked T waves associated with hyperkalemia. In the first few hours the ST segments usually begin to rise. Pathological Q waves may appear within hours or may take greater than 24 hr. The T wave will generally become inverted in the first 24 hours, as the ST elevation begins to resolve. Long term changes of ECG include persistent Q waves (in 90% of cases) and persistent inverted T waves. Persistent ST elevation is rare except in the presence of a ventricular aneurysm.  See also Sgarbossa's criteria  References External links TIMI Risk Score for UA/NSTEMI and STEMI Heart Risk Scores Print out by American Heart Association Archived 2015-09-20 at the Wayback Machine

The Riegelsville Bridge is a suspension bridge crossing the Delaware River at Riegelsville, Pennsylvania, connecting it with Riegelsville, New Jersey, United States.  History Traffic across the Delaware River at Riegelsville, Pennsylvania, was handled by Wendel and Anthony Shenk's oar powered ferries until December 15, 1837, when a three-span, wooden covered bridge was opened to horse, wagon, and pedestrian use. The Pennsylvania and New Jersey legislatures had approved the formation of the private Riegelsville Delaware Bridge Corporation in 1835 and the company engaged Solon Chapin and James Madison Porter of Easton, Pennsylvania as the contractors. A major flood struck the Delaware Valley on January 8, 1841, just three years after the bridge opened, and the span nearest the Jersey shore was destroyed. The bridge was repaired and survived another flood in June 1862. The "Pumpkin Flood" occurred on October 10, 1903, and the Delaware waters rose to 33.8 feet (10.3 m) above normal. The two spans nearest to New Jersey were quickly swept down the river. The third section collapsed soon after. The wire rope and engineering firm of John A. Roebling's Sons Co., based in Trenton, New Jersey, were soon commissioned and replaced the covered bridge with a cable suspension bridge. This new bridge incorporated the original piers which were repaired and raised several feet, allowing it to survive major damage from the flood of 1936 and to come through a 1955 deluge relatively unscathed. Together, the three spans are 585 feet (178 m) in length and the final cost of construction was $30,000. It opened on April 18, 1904. Roebling's original design for the bridge employed main cables 2+5⁄8 inches (7 cm) in diameter. Professor James Madison Porter III, the grandson of the builder of the earlier Riegelsville bridge, was asked to evaluate the new design and felt the need for additional cables of 1+3⁄4 inches (4 cm) diameter, which were added to the plans. The Riegelsville suspension bridge collected tolls until it was purchased by the Joint Commission for Eliminating Tolls and is currently maintained by the Delaware River Joint Toll Bridge Commission using revenues generated from larger, more heavily trafficked crossings. The bridge has a 3-ton weight limit. It was added to the New Jersey Register of Historic Places on March 22, 2010.  Gallery See also List of bridges documented by the Historic American Engineering Record in New Jersey List of bridges documented by the Historic American Engineering Record in Pennsylvania List of crossings of the Delaware River  References External links Historic American Engineering Record (HAER) No. PA-31, "Delaware River Bridge, Spanning Delaware River on Delaware Road, Riegelsville, Bucks County, PA"

German submarine U-4711 was a Type XXIII U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine during World War II. She was ordered on 7 July 1944, and was laid down on 1 December 1944 at Friedrich Krupp Germaniawerft AG, Kiel, as yard number 953. She was launched on 21 February 1945 and commissioned under the command of Oberleutnant zur See Siegfried Endler on 21 March 1945.  Design Like all Type XXIII U-boats, U-4711 had a displacement of 234 tonnes (230 long tons) when at the surface and 258 tonnes (254 long tons) while submerged. She had a total length of 34.68 m (113 ft 9 in) (o/a), a beam width of 3.02 m (9 ft 11 in) (o/a), and a draught depth of 3.66 m (12 ft). The submarine was powered by one MWM six-cylinder RS134S diesel engine providing 575–630 metric horsepower (423–463 kilowatts; 567–621 shaft horsepower), one AEG GU4463-8 double-acting electric motor electric motor providing 580 PS (430 kW; 570 shp), and one BBC silent running CCR188 electric motor providing 35 PS (26 kW; 35 shp). The submarine had a maximum surface speed of 9.7 knots (18.0 km/h; 11.2 mph) and a submerged speed of 12.5 knots (23.2 km/h; 14.4 mph). When submerged, the boat could operate at 4 knots (7.4 km/h; 4.6 mph) for 194 nautical miles (359 km; 223 mi); when surfaced, she could travel 2,600 nautical miles (4,800 km; 3,000 mi) at 8 knots (15 km/h; 9.2 mph). U-4711 was fitted with two 53.3 cm (21 in) torpedo tubes in the bow. She could carry two preloaded torpedoes. The complement was 14–18 men. This class of U-boat did not carry a deck gun.  Service history On 4 May 1945, U-4711 was scuttled at Germaniawerft, Kiel, as part of Operation Regenbogen. The wreck was later raised and broken up.  See also Battle of the Atlantic  References Bibliography External links Helgason, Guðmundur. "U-4711". Uboat.net. Retrieved 30 April 2016.

Tamanaco was a native Venezuelan chief, who as leader of the Mariches and Quiriquires tribes led (during part of the 16th century) the resistance against the Spanish conquest of Venezuelan territory in the central region of the country, specially in the Caracas valley. He is one of the most famous and best known Venezuelan Caciques (Spanish: Indian chief). The city of Santiago de León de Caracas, which had been founded in 1567 by Diego de Losada, was continuously harassed and the subject of raids conducted by the local tribes. In 1570 when Diego de Mazariegos took charge as governor of the province of Venezuela, he made it a priority to pacify the territories.  Conflict with the Spanish Following the death of Guaicaipuro, Tamanaco had risen as the new leader of the Mariches and Quiriquires. By 1573 Tamanaco and his group of natives had become such a problem that reinforcements came from Spain and other Spanish islands in the Caribbean with the sole purpose of taking care of this matter. Soon after captain Pedro Alonso Galeas and lieutenant Francisco Calderón joined their forces, they started on an expedition with the intention of engaging Tamanaco and his men; they were helped by Aricabacuto, another native Chief.  Upon learning of this expedition, Tamanaco prepared a fighting force made up of 300 warriors recruited among his tribes and with the help of men from the Teques and Arbaco tribes. It wasn't long before the two groups engaged each other in combat. However neither side came out victorious in their first fight. Soon after Tamanaco decided to attack Caracas and pursue the Spanish soldiers who retreated to the banks of the river Guaire. The Spanish lost and their commanding officer captain Hernando de la Cerda died in the fighting. However, as the battle seemed to be ending with Tamanaco's victory, a Spanish cavalry detachment came and surrounded the natives.  Death Tamanaco was apprehended alive and sentenced to death by hanging. However, Garcí González de Silva, in charge of Caracas' city hall "did something". Among the discussion a captain named Mendoza suggested an alternative: he proposed to let Tamanaco chose between hanging or fighting a trained-killer mastin dog named "Friend," that Mendoza owned. All liked the idea and proposed it to Tamanaco. He accepted the challenge and is reported to have said "the dog will die by my hands and then these cruel men will know what Tamanaco is capable of" However, the fight was uneven and Tamanaco died of the injuries he suffered in his throat. The legend claims the dog so fiercely bit his neck that it detached it from his body. Some historians say that there is not enough evidence to confirm if it was one or several dogs that fought with Tamanaco. After his death, Tamanaco would become a legend among the natives who would call his name when going into battle.  Legacy In Venezuela there are a variety of works, neighborhoods and sites that are named after Tamanaco. Probably best known are the 'Hotel Tamanaco'[1] (Caracas' oldest 5-star hotel—part of the Intercontinental chain), the 'Centro Ciudad Comercial Tamanaco' (a shopping mall), the 'Tamanaco Avenue' in Caracas, the 'Colinas del Tamanaco' residential area in Caracas, and the 'Tamanaco Dam'[2] in Guarico state among others. Gold coins for investment and collection are minted in Venezuela with Tamanaco's image.  Use in propaganda In past years the former president of Venezuela, deceased Hugo Chávez, has often mentioned Tamanaco and other native chiefs in his speeches with the purpose of inspiring Venezuelans to resist what he calls American imperialists and interventionists policies directed towards Venezuela. Most notably he did it every year during the 12 October holiday, which after being renamed several years ago Dia de la Raza (previously America's Discovery day), was recently renamed as Día de la Resistencia Indígena (Day of Indigenous Resistance).  External links Tamanaco biography (in Spanish) Hotel Tamanaco in Caracas CCCT Tamanaco Shopping Mall Website Sporting Brand

Norton Harding van Sicklen, Sr. (1864 – 1932) was a bicycle and automobile publisher and entrepreneur and racing cyclist.  Cycling Norton H. Van Sicklen had a long and varied career in both the bicycle and automobile industry of the United States. He rode his first penny-farthing bicycle in 1878 and, until 1886, he was a successful competitor in the track and road races that enjoyed great popularity during the bicycle crazes of the late 19th century. In 1886, he won the 10 Mile Championship of the League of American Wheelmen. It was, however, after changing to the safety bicycle that he celebrated most success on the road. From 1889 onward he took several best times in high level road races.  Publishing and automobile industry In 1890 he began the publication of the successful bicycle trade paper Bearings. In 1898, this paper was merged with two others to become Cycle Age under the management of Samuel A. Miles. Miles in 1899 established the automobile publication Motor Age, and Van Sicklen took this over in 1904. He continued publication of Motor Age until the disturbed period following the financial panic of 1907 and, in January 1908 sold it to Horace M. Swetland of the Class Journal Company. Following the sale of Motor Age he became the branch manager of the Knox Automobile Co. in Chicago. Later, he took great interest in the  Automobile Blue Books, and for a year or so he was engaged in their development. In 1910, after disposing of his interest in the Blue Book, he became manager of the F.A.L. Motor Car Co., an assembling enterprise located in Chicago. Van Sicklen was instrumental in the organization of the Chicago Motor Club and the American Automobile Association, and was president of both bodies. In 1913, he began the manufacture of the Van Sicklen speedometer in Elgin, Illinois, a business that he developed into an important enterprise before it was taken over by John N. Willys in fall 1919. Willys later sold it to the Stewart-Warner Corporation. During World War I, the company was engaged in the manufacture of aircraft instruments for the United States Government. After the war, in 1922, he became assistant general manager of the Apperson Automobile Co. in Kokomo and, a few months later, he was promoted to the position of general manager of the concern, which he held until its dissolution in 1926.   == References ==

Liborio Vidal Aguilar (born 27 April 1963) is a Mexican politician from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. He is a federal deputy to the LXIII Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing the First Federal Electoral District of Yucatán.  Life Vidal broke into politics in 1990 when he became the president of the PRI in his hometown of Valladolid. The next year, he was elected municipal president, a capacity in which he served until 1993. That year, he also began the first in a string of tenures as a business leader, in a family business known as Proveedora del Hogar Vidal, S.A. de C.V. From 1994 to 1995 and again between 1998 and 2001, Vidal served as a local deputy in the LIII and LV Legislatures of the Congress of Yucatán. In between, he was the state subsecretary of government and simultaneously served as a state political councilor. Meanwhile, between 1996 and 1999, he was the founder and director general of another business, Bodega Mayorista del Sureste, S.A. de C.V. (Bomssa). Bomssa was based in Mérida, with branches in Comitán, Cancún and Coatzacoalcos. In 1999, he shifted to directing Proveedora Mueblera Vidal, S.A. de C.V., a position he held for eight years. During this time, from 2001 to 2003, Vidal served as the vice president of the chamber of commerce of Valladolid. During this time, Vidal also jumped from the PRI to join the Party of the Democratic Revolution; he and several other former members of the PRI in Yucatán rejoined the party in 2007. For a time in 2007, Vidal was the state secretary of social development; between 2008 and 2009, he was the secretary of community social policy. In 2009, voters elected Vidal to the federal legislature for the first time, as a deputy to the LXI Legislature of the Mexican Congress. He sat as part of the PVEM faction and was the secretary of the Social Development Commission. Vidal also participated on commissions dealing with agriculture, fishing, and southern border matters. In 2015, the PRI ran Vidal as its candidate for the district 1 seat and sent him back to San Lázaro for the LXIII Legislature. He is a secretary on the Southern/Southeastern Border Matters Commission and also serves on those dealing with Culture and Film, as well as Tourism. For most of the last 25 years, beginning with his tenure as municipal president of Valladolid, Vidal has donated his statutory salary from his various government positions for charitable purposes, a tradition he continued in 2016 by donating $86,000 per month, stating that he earns enough from his business ventures. For the first time, in 2016, citizens got to choose to which priority areas Vidal's donation would be directed, selecting medicine for low-income children, environmental education, and homes for the elderly.   == References ==

The Jane Ross Reeves Octagon House was originally located between Wilkinson, Indiana and Willow Branch, Indiana. It was moved to its present location in 1997. It is currently located at 400 Railroad Street in Shirley, Indiana. When Jane and Elijah first homesteaded their farm, they built a log cabin on the highest point of the land. This was later replaced by a frame house which was torn down at the time the Octagon house was built. When the log cabin was built, two trees were planted in front of the house- one on each side of the gate. These were called wedding trees and as they grew, the two became one as their branches met in the middle. The one tree represented the groom and the second represented the bride. Two new trees were planted at the current location. The Octagon house was built in 1879. In 1876, three years after her husband's death, Jane Ross Reeves found the plans in a magazine. She liked it so much she decided she had to have one.  This house was built at a cost of somewhere between $2300 and $2500. It was built by a contracting company in Fortville, Indiana. When the house was completed, it was paid for in full from silver dollars that she (Jane Ross Reeves) had saved in a shoe box. The house is two stories of wood frame construction with a pyramidal roof. The house has little architectural ornamentation. The house has 16 rooms and every room has a closet. There are four large rooms and four small rooms on each floor. When the house was moved, it was placed over a full basement. The basement has 10' ceilings and is 45' wide in every direction. Their  house had four chimneys. One chimney serviced 4 rooms- 2 up and 2 down. The chimneys were removed to reduce weight when being moved. Even after their removal, the house still weighed 90 tons! The chimneys were rebuilt from the floor of the attic up to their original height so the house looks the same from the outside. The chimney chases were rebuilt on the inside of the house, so it looks exactly as it was originally built. These chases now contain the utilities. (wiring, plumbing, etc.) There are only five octagon houses left standing in the state of Indiana. The Reeves Octagon House is deemed to be the most important one as it has never been altered or changed with the exception of the porch; it now goes around the entire house. The Jane Ross Reeves Octagon House Foundation's President, Darrell Deck is the source of the information above.  References External links Historic American Buildings Survey (HABS) No. IN-172, "Octagon House, Wilkinson, Hancock County, IN", 4 measured drawings

James Franklin Baskett (February 16, 1904 – July 9, 1948) was an American actor who portrayed Uncle Remus, singing the song "Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah" in the 1946 Disney feature film Song of the South. In recognition of his portrayal of Remus, he was given an Honorary Academy Award in 1948.  Career Baskett studied pharmacology as a young man but gave it up to pursue an acting career. He first moved to New York City, New York, where he joined up with Bill 'Mr. Bojangles' Robinson. Using the name Jimmie Baskette, he appeared with Louis Armstrong on Broadway in the 1929 black musical revue Hot Chocolates and in several all-black New York films, including Harlem is Heaven (1932). He later moved to Los Angeles, California, and had a supporting role in the film Straight to Heaven (1939), starring Nina Mae McKinney. In 1941 he voiced Fats Crow in the animated Disney film Dumbo, and he also had bit parts in several B movies, including that of Lazarus in Revenge of the Zombies (1943), a porter in The Heavenly Body (1944), and native tribal leader Orbon in Jungle Queen (1945). From 1944 until 1948, he was part of the cast of the Amos 'n' Andy Show live radio program as lawyer Gabby Gibson. In 1945, he auditioned for a bit part voicing one of the animals in the new Disney feature film Song of the South (1946), based on the Uncle Remus stories by Joel Chandler Harris. Walt Disney was impressed with Baskett's talent and hired him on the spot for the lead role of Uncle Remus. Baskett was also given the voice role of Brer Fox, one of the film's animated antagonists, and also filled in as the main animated protagonist, Brer Rabbit, in one sequence.  This was one of the first Hollywood portrayals of a black actor as a non-comic character in a leading role in a film meant for general audiences. Baskett was prohibited from attending the film's premiere in Atlanta, Georgia, because Atlanta was racially segregated by law. Although Baskett was occasionally criticized for accepting such a "demeaning" role (most of his acting credits were that of African-American stereotypes), his acting was almost universally praised, and columnist Hedda Hopper, along with Walt Disney, was one of the many journalists and personalities who declared that he should receive an Academy Award for his work. Baskett defended the film and his character in it, saying, "I believe that certain groups are doing my race more harm in seeking to create dissension, than can ever possibly come out of the Song of the South."  Academy Honorary Award On March 20, 1948, Baskett received an Academy Honorary Award for his performance as Uncle Remus. He was the first African-American male actor to earn an Academy Award. Additionally, Baskett was the last adult actor to receive an Honorary Oscar for a single performance.  Illness and death Baskett had been in poor health during the filming of Song of the South due to diabetes and he suffered a heart attack in December 1946 shortly after its release. His health continued to decline, and he was often unable to attend the Amos 'n' Andy radio show he was on, missing almost half of the 1947–1948 season. On July 9, 1948, during the show's summer hiatus, James Baskett died at his home of heart failure resulting from diabetes at age 44. He was survived by his wife Margaret and his mother Elizabeth. He is buried at Crown Hill Cemetery in Indianapolis.  Filmography See also List of African-American firsts  References External links  James Baskett at IMDb James Baskett at the Internet Broadway Database James Baskett at Find a Grave

Sparta was a prominent city-state in ancient Greece. Sparta may also refer to:  Places Sparta, Laconia, a city and municipality in Greece that lies at the site of ancient Sparta  Canada Sparta, Ontario, a historic village in Canada Sparta, or Sparty-Wharf, a hamlet in Box Grove, Ontario 1850 to 1867  United States Sparta, Georgia, a city Sparta, Illinois, a city Sparta, Indiana, an unincorporated community Sparta, Kentucky, a city Sparta, Louisiana, an unincorporated community Sparta, Michigan, a village Sparta, Mississippi, an unincorporated community Sparta, Missouri, a city Sparta, Buchanan County, Missouri, an unincorporated community Sparta, Nebraska, an unincorporated community Sparta, New Jersey, a township Sparta, New York, a township, Livingston County Sparta, North Carolina Sparta, Ohio, a village Sparta, Tennessee, a city Sparta, Wisconsin, a city Sparta (town), Wisconsin, a town  Sports List of sports teams named Spartans  Czech Republic Sparta Prague, a Czech multi-sports club: AC Sparta Prague, men's football team AC Sparta Praha (women), women's football team HC Sparta Praha, ice hockey team BC Sparta Prague, men's basketball team BLC Sparta Prague, women's basketball team RC Sparta Prague, rugby union team AC Sparta Praha (cycling team) TK Sparta Prague, a tennis club and training center Sparta Prague Open, a tennis tournament SK Sparta Kolín, a Czech football team SK Sparta Krč, a Czech football team  Netherlands Sparta-Feyenoord, a Dutch baseball team Sparta Rotterdam, a Dutch football team  Norway IL Sparta, a Norwegian multi-sport club Sparta Warriors, ice hockey team of IL Sparta Sparta Amfi, an indoor ice hockey rink, belonging to IL Sparta FK Sparta Sarpsborg (2004-2007), later Sarpsborg 08 FF, a Norwegian football team  Poland Sparta Brodnica, a Polish football team Sparta Janowiec Wielkopolski, a Polish football team Sparta Lwów, a Polish football team Sparta Oborniki, a Polish football team; See Mariusz Szyszka Sparta Szamotuły, a Polish football team Sparta Wrocław, a Polish motorcycle speedway team Sparta Złotów, a Polish multi-sports club  Other Sparta F.C., a Greek football club Sparta (athletic club), a Danish athletic club CF Sparta, a Moldovan football club Sparta, a racehorse which failed to complete the 1848 Grand National  Arts and entertainment Sparta (film), a 2022 film directed by Ulrich Seidl Ancient Wars: Sparta, a real-time strategy computer game Sparta, a fictional planet in the CoDominium series of books by Jerry Pournelle Sparta, a fictional planet in the novel A Spartan Planet by A. Bertram Chandler Sparta, part four of the limited series Herogasm as part of The Boys comic book franchise "This is Sparta!", an internet meme originating from the film 300  Music Sparta (album), an album by M.O.P. Sparta (band), a band formed by ex-members of At the Drive-In "Sparta", a song by Sabaton From The Last Stand  Other uses Sparta (mythology), mythical first queen of Sparta, eponym of the city-state SPARTA, Inc., a United States defense contractor Sparta (moth), a genus of moth Sparta (rocket), an Australian rocket Sparta (ship), a Russian fishing trawler Sparta, the nickname for a Panthera spelaea cub discovered preserved in permafrost  See also Duke of Sparta, title of the heir apparent to the Greek throne Spartoi or Sparti, a group of mythical beings figuring in the founding myths of the ancient Greek city of Thebes Nueva Esparta, a state in Venezuela Nueva Esparta, El Salvador Esparta, a municipality in the Honduras Isparta, a city in Turkey Sparta Township (disambiguation) Spartak (disambiguation) Spartan (disambiguation) Spata (disambiguation) Laconia (disambiguation) All pages with titles beginning with Sparta All pages with titles containing Sparta

Miss Monochrome (ミス・モノクローム, Misu Monokurōmu) is an original character created and voiced by Japanese singer and voice actress Yui Horie, first appearing as a 3D virtual singer in March 2012 at the concert The Adventure Over Yui Horie III ~Secret Mission Tour~ (堀江由衣をめぐる冒険III～Secret Mission Tour～, Horie Yui o Meguru Bōken III ~Secret Mission Tour~). A 13-episode anime television series by Liden Films aired in Japan between October and December 2013. A second season of the anime began airing from July 3, 2015. A manga series began serialization in Kodansha's Good! Afternoon magazine in January 2014.  Characters Miss Monochrome (ミス・モノクローム, Misu Monokurōmu) Voiced by: Yui Horie, Takahiro Sakurai (Genderbent) (Japanese); Abby Trott (English) An android aspiring to become an idol. She had been an admirer of Kikuko and naively thinks that by becoming a famous idol herself, she could meet Kikuko someday. She keeps herself charged using AA batteries, but installing it with different types can physically affect her. Miss Monochrome existed since the ancient human civilization, which was destroyed by an alien invasion. For once, out of curiosity, she installed the battery in the opposite pole, which in turn transform her into a male android Mister Monochrome (ミスター・モノクローム, Misutā Monokurōmu). Though gaining a larger popularity, she was embarrassed by the appearance until she reverted to her normal form. Maneo (マネオ) Voiced by: Keiji Fujiwara (Japanese); Keith Silverstein (English) The manager of a convenience store who winds up as Miss Monochrome's idol manager simply due to his job title. Kikuko Voiced by: Kikuko Inoue (Japanese); Cristina Vee (English) An idol for popular TV shows. She is the one who Miss Monochrome looks up to when she decided that she wanted to become an idol. It is implied that she was the reincarnation of Miss Monochrome's friend back in the ancient civilization after its destruction by an alien race. However, Monochrome has little memory of what happened in the past, due to waiting from that time diminishes her memory. Mana (マナ) Voiced by: Akemi Kanda (Japanese); Sandy Rojas (English) Monochrome's caretaker who becomes Kikuko's manager after conning Miss Monochrome into handing over 19.3 billion yen worth of her fortune. She always manages to cover up the aforementioned scam every time Monochrome tries to bring it up. Rū-chan (ルーちゃん) Voiced by: Hiroshi Kamiya Miss Monochrome's "pet" Roomba, which is powered by a built-in battery cell. He was initially speechless until the appearance of season 2. When Miss Monochrome installed herself with an energetic battery, it combined with her and allows her to gain additional energy boost, so much that it was able to destroy an entire alien invasion fleet. Yayoi Konno (紺野 やよい, Konno Yayoi) Voiced by: Kana Asumi An employee at Heimin Records who becomes Miss Monochrome's promoter. Due to the Heimin Records suffered was at wit's end, she ended up participating in an illegal street race to relief her tension until she met Monochrome. While generally klutzy and a bit overambitious, when she gets behind the wheel of her car, a modified Mazda RX-7 FD3S, she turns into a boisterous speed demon. But nonetheless, she is dutiful in person and manages to perform her jobs quickly whenever anything was requested by Monochrome. Akiko (あきこ) Voiced by: Ayaka Suwa An employee at Maneo's convenience store who is talented with the guitar. While initially chosen to become Miss Monochrome's guitarist, she ends up making her solo debut as an international superstar. Caramel (キャラメル, Kyarameru) Voiced by: Yui Horie, Akemi Kanda, Kana Asumi, and Atsuko Yamashita (Angela) A rookie idol group who become Miss Monochrome's backup dancers. They are named after their voice actresses; Yui (ゆい), Akemi (あけみ), Kana (かな) and Atsuko (あつこ). Aliens (宇宙人, Uchujin) Voiced by: Taishi Murata An alien race that had wiped an ancient human civilization which Monochrome comes from, they reappeared again in episode 3 but the entire army was obliterated by Monochrome after she charged herself with the EVOLUTA battery. DJ Colorful (DJカラフル, Di Jei Karafuru) Voiced by: Showtaro Morikubo First introduced in episode 1 of season 3, he was a gas attendant until Monochrome hired him as her DJ.  Media Anime Miss Monochrome: The Animation (ミス・モノクローム -The Animation-) was produced by Liden Films and aired on TV Tokyo between October 1 and December 24, 2013. Additionally, it was released by Niconico Channel, Bandai Channel, AT-X in Japan and by Crunchyroll for viewers outside Japan and Taiwan. An English dub of the series was released on Crunchyroll on July 21, 2015. The theme song is "Pokerface" (ポーカーフェイス, Pōkāfeisu) by Miss Monochrome (Yui Horie). A second season began airing from July 3 to September 25, 2015. A third season began airing from October 2 to December 18, 2015 For both seasons, the opening and ending themes respectively are "Black or White?" and "Step by Step", both performed by Miss Monochrome. From episode 10 of season 3 onwards, the respective opening and ending themes are "Miss Monochrome Taisō" (ミス・モノクローム体操, Miss Monochrome Exercise) and "Kimi to Boku" (キミとボク, You and I) by Miss Monochrome.  Manga A manga adaptation, titled Miss Monochrome -Motto Challenge- (ミス・モノクローム -Motto Challenge-, Misu Monokurōmu -Motto Challenge-), written by Kazuyuki Fudeyasu and illustrated by Nana Tōno, began serialization in the 40th issue of Kodansha's Good! Afternoon magazine on January 29, 2014.  Appearances in other media Miss Monochrome makes various appearances in other series. She appears in the Girl Friend Beta smartphone game, as well as its 2014 anime adaptation. Towards the end of 2015, she became a playable character in the online RPG Shironeko Project as part of a collaboration event with COLOPL. She also appears as an unlockable scout in Megadimension Neptunia VII.  References External links Official website (in Japanese) Miss Monochrome (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia

In England, local authorities have duties to homeless people under Part VII of the  Housing Act 1996 as amended by the  Homelessness Act 2002. There are five hurdles which a homeless person must overcome in order to qualify as statutory homeless. If an applicant only meets the first three of these tests Councils still have a duty to provide interim accommodation. However an applicant must satisfy all five for a Council to have to give an applicant "reasonable preference" on the social housing register. Even if a person passes these five tests councils have the ability to use the private rented sector to end their duty to a homeless person. The five tests are:  Is the applicant homeless or threatened with homelessness? Is the applicant eligible for assistance? Is the applicant priority need? Is the applicant intentionally homeless? Does the applicant have a local connection? The annual number of homeless households in England peaked in 2003–04 at 135,420 before falling to a low of 40,020 in 2009–10. In 2014–15, there were 54,430 homeless households, which was 60 per cent below the 2003–04 peak. However, in December 2016 the housing charity Shelter estimated homelessness in England to amount to more than 250,000 people; Shelter calculated the figure using four sets of official sources: statistics on rough sleepers (i.e. people sleeping on the streets), statistics on those in temporary accommodation, the number of people housed in hostels and the number of people waiting to be housed by council social services departments. In England, it had been estimated in 2007 an average of 498 people slept rough each night, with 248 of those in London. But reportedly numbers sleeping rough have soared in recent years and doubled since 2010; figures reported for the 2015 count were 3,569 people rough sleeping in England on a single night, up 102% from 2010. Given the costs of providing temporary accommodation and the limited amount of social housing in the United Kingdom some Councils have been criticised for attempting to circumvent their duties under the law, a process which has been termed "gatekeeping". The term "Non-statutory homelessness" covers people who are considered by the local authority to be not eligible for assistance, not in priority need or "intentionally homeless". Households in temporary accommodation rose from 35,850 in 2011 to 54,280 in early 2017. Part of the cause is people losing private tenancies, which Shelter maintains increased drastically since 2011 when housing benefit cuts began. Almost three quarters of homeless people are single parent families. Just under 30,000 single parent families became homeless in 2017, this rose 8% from five years previously. Their limited income makes it hard for them to deal with rising living costs, high rents and benefit cuts. The number of households in temporary accommodation has risen by almost two thirds since 2010 and reached 78,930. Mothers of single parent families are particularly at risk of homelessness. According to Shelter one in 55 single parent families became homeless in 2017 to 2018 and 92% of the 26,610 cases were headed by a mother. In 2023, the number of homeless people in England hit record levels, with 104,510 people in England in temporary accommodation. An estimated 3,898 people slept rough in England in 2023, over double the estimated figure from 2010.  Reasons for homelessness In 2007/2008, the Office of the Deputy for Homelessness Statistics produced a table which showed some of the more immediate reasons for homelessness in England. These were not underlying reasons but before the onset of homelessness. These reasons were given by the minister's report for 2007/2008 as:  37% – Parents, family, or friends no longer willing or able to accommodate 20% – Loss of private dwelling, including tied accommodation 19% – Breakdown of relationship with partner 4%  – Mortgage arrears 2%  – Rent arrears 18% –  other The longer term causes of homelessness in England have been examined by a number of research studies. These suggest that both personal factors (e.g. addictions) and structural factors (e.g. poverty) are responsible for homelessness. A number of different pathways into homelessness have been identified.  There are additional factors that appear to be causes of homelessness among young people, most notably needing to face the responsibilities of independent living before they are ready for them  The 2016 Homelessness Monitor report for England stated the bulk of the increase in statutory homelessness over the previous five years was attributable to sharply rising numbers of people made homeless from the private rented sector; as a proportion of all statutory homelessness acceptances loss of a private tenancy increased from 11 per cent in 2009-10 to 29 per cent in 2014-15 (from 4,600 to 16,000). This report concludes that 'homelessness worsened considerably' during the five years of the Coalition Government (2010–15) and adds 'services have been overwhelmed by the knock-on consequences of wider ministerial decisions, especially on welfare reform' (see Executive Summary).  Government treatment of the homeless Statutory Homelessness Tests All local authorities in England have a legal duty to provide 24-hour advice to homeless people, or those who are at risk of becoming homeless within 28 days. A local authority must accept an application for assistance from a person seeking homelessness assistance if they have reason to believe that the person may be homeless or threatened with homelessness. They are then duty bound to make inquiries into that person's circumstances in order to decide whether a legal duty to provide accommodation and assistance is owed. "Interim accommodation" must be provided to those that may be eligible for permanent assistance pending a final decision.  If the local authority decides that a person is homeless but does not fall into a priority need category, then a lesser duty shall be owed which does not extend to the provision of temporary accommodation. If the authority decides that a person is homeless and priority need but became homeless intentionally then the authority must secure that accommodation is available for such a period as will give the person reasonable time to find long term accommodation, which can extend to provision of temporary accommodation. The local authority shall in all the above cases be lawfully obliged to offer advice and assistance. If the applicant qualifies under the five criteria (that they are not ineligible for housing, such as a person subject to immigration control; that the applicant is statutorily homeless or threatened with homelessness; that they are of 'priority need'; that the applicant is not intentionally homeless; and that the applicant has a local connection) then the local authority has a legal duty to provide accommodation for the applicant, those living with them, and any other person who it is reasonable to reside with them. However, if the applicant does not have a local connection with the district of the authority then they may be referred to another local authority with which they have a local connection (unless it is likely that the applicant would suffer violence or threats of violence in that other area).  Homelessness A person does not have to be roofless to qualify legally as being homeless. They may be in possession of accommodation which is not reasonably tenable for a person to occupy by virtue of its affordability, condition, location, if it is not available to all members of the household, or because an occupant is at risk of violence or threats of violence which are likely to be carried out.  Eligibility Certain categories of persons from abroad (including British citizens who have lived abroad for some time) may be ineligible for assistance under the legislation.  Priority need People have a priority need for being provided with temporary housing (and a given a 'reasonable preference' for permanent accommodation on the Council's Housing Register) if any of the following apply:  they are pregnant they have dependent children they are homeless because of an emergency such as a flood or a fire they are aged 16 or 17 (except certain care leavers [orphans, etc.] who remain the responsibility of social services) they are care leavers aged 18–20 (if looked after, accommodated or fostered while aged 16–17) they are vulnerable due to: old age a physical or mental illness a handicap or physical disability other special reason (such as a person at risk of exploitation) they are vulnerable as a result of having been in care (regardless of age) fleeing violence or threats of violence service in one of the armed forces having served a custodial sentence or having been remanded in custody.  Intentional homelessness Under 191(1) and 196(1) of the Housing Act 1996, "a person becomes homeless intentionally or threatened with homelessness intentionally, if: (1) A person becomes homeless intentionally if he deliberately does or fails to do anything in consequence of which he ceases to occupy accommodation which is available for his occupation and which it would have been reasonable for him to continue to occupy. (2) For the purposes of subsection (1) an act or omission in good faith on the part of a person who was unaware of any relevant fact shall not be treated as deliberate. (3) A person shall be treated as becoming homeless intentionally if— (a) he enters into an arrangement under which he is required to cease to occupy accommodation which it would have been reasonable for him to continue to occupy, and (b) the purpose of the arrangement is to enable him to become entitled to assistance under this Part, and there is no other good reason why he is homeless. (4) A person who is given advice or assistance under section 197 (duty where other suitable alternative accommodation available), but fails to secure suitable accommodation in circumstances in which it was reasonably to be expected that he would do so, shall, if he makes a further application under this Part, be treated as having become homeless intentionally. An act or omission made in good faith by someone who was unaware of any relevant fact must not be treated as deliberate.  Local connection Someone may have a local connection with a local council area if they fulfil any of the following:  (1) they live in the area now or have done in the recent past, (2) they work in the area, or (3) they have close family in the area.  It is possible to have a local connection with more than one area.  Rough sleeping Rough sleeping assessments do not count people sofa surfing or those who are in temporary shelters. Despite considerable efforts, the official rough sleeper counts showed increases every year after new methodology was introduced in autumn 2010 up to the autumn 2017 count. The results of the 2017 count were published on 25 January 2018 – a 169% increase in the number of people sleeping rough in England since 2010 was recorded. The recorded number of rough sleepers then fell by 2% in 2018 and 9% in 2019, although the 2019 count still represented a 141% increase on the 1,768 recorded in 2010. The 2020 count recorded a 37% drop in rough sleeping on 2019. This count coincided with a national lockdown and tier restrictions in response to Covid-19. The 2021 count recorded a further 9% fall on 2020 but was still up by 670 people (38%) on 2010. The financial year report from the Combined Homelessness and Information Network (CHAIN) database, CHAIN Greater London Annual Report 2020–21 reported that a total of 11,018 rough sleepers were contacted by outreach workers or building-based teams in London during 2020/21. This represented a 3% increase on the previous year. 7,531 (68%) were seen rough sleeping for the first time. Doug Saunders, a journalist for the Globe and Mail based in London, reports that starting in 1997, Britain’s Rough Sleepers Unit (RSU) successfully reduced the problem in the City of London, saying "for a decade, it worked: One of the world’s worst rough-sleeping crises was all but solved." The RSU effort was abandoned in 2010. In February 2024, it was reported that an estimated 3,898 people slept rough in England in 2023, representing a 27% increase from the prior year and over double the number of people recorded in 2010.  Services for rough sleepers A national service, called Streetlink, was established in 2012 to help members of the public obtain near-immediate assistance for specific rough sleepers, with the support of the Government (as housing is a devolved matter, the service currently only extends to England). Currently, the service does not operate on a statutory basis, and the involvement of local authorities is merely due to political pressure from the government and charities, with funding being provided by the government (and others) on an ad-hoc basis. A member of the public who is concerned that someone is sleeping on the streets can report the individual's details via the Street Link website or by calling its referral line number. Someone who finds themselves sleeping on the streets can also report their situation using the same methods. The service aims to respond within 24-hours, including an assessment of the individual circumstances and an offer of temporary accommodation for the following nights. The response typically includes a visit to the rough sleeper early in the morning that follows the day or night on which the report has been made. The service operates via a number of charities and with the assistance of local councils. Where appropriate, rough sleepers will also be offered specialist support:  if they have substance misuse issues, they will be referred for support from organisations such as St. Mungo's (despite the name, this is a non-religious charity) if they are foreign nationals with no right to access public funds in the UK, repatriation assistance will be offered, including finding accommodation in the home country, construction of support plans, and financial assistance. The service was piloted in London, in 2010, under the title No Second Night Out, which has been gone on to become the brand name used for the service in a number of other council areas, including Merseyside. Since the launch in 2010, a number of charities have provided the core functions of the service in London: Thames Reach runs the London Street Rescue Service which provides support to people sleeping on the streets of the capital, Broadway Outreach Teams provide services on the streets in the particular areas of Kensington and Chelsea, The City, and Heathrow Airport. The Whitechapel Centre has provided similar services in Liverpool.  Data Localism Act A provision of the Localism Act gave Councils greater discretion to place those who are statutory homeless in private sector accommodation. Critics have argued that this masks the level of homelessness by deterring people from applying in the first place. Critics have harshly critiqued the benefit cap and other welfare cuts, arguing that these policies lead to "social cleansing" and pointing to the displacement of families from inner London.  Homelessness Prevention Programme Recognising that homelessness in England was a growing problem, the Government announced a £40m initiative in October 2016 to help prevent people becoming homeless.  A network of Homelessness Prevention Trailblazer areas were funded to develop innovative approaches to prevent homelessness; early adopters included Greater Manchester, Newcastle and Southwark councils (HM Govt Homelessness Prevention Programme 17 October 2016).  Prior to 2016, Newcastle upon Tyne had successfully applied a cooperative and preventative approach to homelessness by linking local government departments with other agencies and charities.  Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 The Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 placed a new duty on local authorities in England to assist people threatened with homelessness within 56 days and to assess, prevent and relieve homelessness for all eligible applicants including single homeless people from April 2018. In short, no one should be turned away.  January 2018 report In January 2018, it was reported that the number of homeless people sleeping on the streets in England had reached its highest level on record. The government's official figures showed that on any given night in autumn 2017, over 4,500 people were sleeping on the streets in England. The number had been shown to have increased by 73% over the last three years. The national charity for homeless people in the UK, Crisis, said the true number of those sleeping rough in England was far greater than the government's official figures, placing the number of people sleeping rough in England alone as over 8,000.  January to March 2023 report In the January to March 2023 figures reported by the UK government it was revealed that homelessness in England had reached record levels, with 104,510 households in England in temporary accommodation.  Homelessness advice Practical advice regarding homelessness can be obtained through a number of major non-governmental organisations including,  Citizens Advice Bureaus and some other charities also offer free legal advice in person, by telephone, or by email, from qualified lawyers and others operating on a pro bono basis Shelter provides extensive advice about homelessness and other housing problems on their website, and from the telephone number given there, including about rights and legal situations. In an emergency, a person contacts a local council.  See also Homelessness in Scotland Homelessness in Wales Homelessness in the United Kingdom  References Further reading Angell, Ian, "No More Leaning on Lamp-posts", London School of Economics BBC News, "Warning over homelessness figures: Government claims that homelessness numbers have fallen by a fifth since last year should be taken with a health warning, says housing charity Shelter", Monday, 13 June 2005. BBC News, "More than 250,000 are homeless in England - Shelter", 1 December 2016. BBC Radio 4, "No Home, a season of television and radio programmes that introduce the new homeless.", 2006 "UK Housing Review", University of York, England The Guardian,"Homelessness section" Wilding, Mark. (2020). The challenges of measuring homelessness among armed forces veterans: Service provider experiences in England. European Journal of Homelessness, 14(1): 107-122. The Big Issue, What is Housing First and how can it solve homelessness in the UK?,  17 August 2022  External links Figures and reports Homelessness statistics - gov.uk The Homelessness Code of Guidance for Local Authorities – Provides statutory guidance on Local Authority obligations towards homeless people Quarterly government statistics on statutory homelessness – Quarterly statistics from central government on statutory homelessness and rough sleeping statistics in England. Statutory Homelessness Statistics, England – since 2007 StreetLink - Government funded homeless support service and charity Homeless link, "Facts and Figures" Homelessness Monitor "project reports" University research studies funded by the homeless people charity "Crisis". Shelter "databank" for England.  Organisations Homeless Link National Housing Federation

The Verata is a traditional Spanish breed of domestic goat. It is a dual-purpose breed, reared both for its meat and for its milk. It is named for, and is thought to originate in, the comarca of La Vera, in the province of Cáceres, in the northern part of the autonomous community of Extremadura in western central Spain. It is one of two traditional goat breeds in Extremadura, the other being the Retinta Extremeña.: 403  History The Verata is a traditional and heterogeneous goat breed from the Tagus depression in western central Spain, bounded to the south by the Montes de Toledo and to the north by the western Sistema Central. It was traditionally reared in the Sierra de Gredos, in the area where the provinces of Ávila, Cáceres and Toledo meet.: 245  Towards the end of the twentieth century there was some displacement of the breed from its area of origin, the comarca of La Vera, into the comarca of Navalmoral de la Mata to the south.  Characteristics The Verata has been known to be fairly easy to handle; they are popular in the dairy and meat industries because of that and they can adapt well to the different management systems. They have been known to be very hardy, and can survive in many climates. They are adapted to the mountain pastures because they have strong, long legs, and they can also survive on poor and scarce feed.  The Verata Goat is smaller than the average goat, and found in their homes in the Vera in the Caceres region of Spain. They are especially valued for their milk there. Their milk is used in cheese production. Currently, about 17000  Verata Goats inhabit Spain. Generally, these goats are found in herds of 100 to 150 goats.  When grazing is scarce, these goats do well on concentrated feed in confinement, as well. When they are mature, these goats generally reach a height around 70 cm, and weigh an average of 70 kg; the does are a bit shorter and lighter than the males. These goats have glossy, short hair in either black or brown. They usually have a black facial fringe, a black underbelly, and a black dorsal ridge. They have horns that go outward, and spiral forward, and well-sprung ribs. They have an erect tail; beards are prominent on the males, and about 40% of the females also have prominent beards. They also have dark, hard hooves. The legs of these goats look rather small; thus, the joints look significantly larger.  Use Verata Goats are able to breed year round, but breeders and farmers usually breed them in October and November and again in the spring, sometime around March. They have a high fertility rate, and under good conditions, they can have an average of three births every two years. Lactation periods usually last around 175 days, and they yield around 150 L of milk. Kids that have reached around 45 days old can be slaughtered for their meat.   == References ==

Thomas Farmer (fl. 1685) was an English composer.  Life Farmer was originally one of a company of musicians in London and played in the waits. He took the degree of Mus. B. at Cambridge in 1684. The date of his death is fixed only by the fact that Henry Purcell wrote an elegy on him to words by Nahum Tate, published in Orpheus Britannicus, ii. 35, and beginning "Young Thyrsis' fate ye hills and groves deplore". This establishes the fact that Farmer died before November 1695, and probably he died young. John Hawkins stated that his house was in Martlet Court, Bow Street, Covent Garden.  Works He contributed songs to John Playford's Choice Ayres, Songs, and Dialogues (second edition, 1675). One of these is described as "in the Citizen turn'd Gentleman"; this was the sub-title of Edward Ravenscroft's Mamamouchi, produced 1675. Apollo's Banquet contains "Mr. Farmer's Magot", for violin. His instrumental compositions are entirely for strings, in three or four parts. He wrote the tunes in The Princess of Cleve, which appear in a set of manuscript parts dated December [16]82, owned by Thomas Fuller; Fuller possessed three other compositions in three parts by him, and various overtures are contained in British Library Add MS 24889. He contributed songs to The Theater of Musick, 1685 to 1687, and to Thomas d'Urfey's third collection, 1685. In 1686 his own collection of airs in four parts appeared, under the title of A Consort of Musick, containing 33 lessons. A Second Consort, containing 11 lessons, appeared in 1690.  References  "Farmer, Thomas" . Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900. Attribution  This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: "Farmer, Thomas". Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.

Sucker for Love: Date to Die For is a parodic horror dating sim visual novel developed by Joseph "Akabaka" Hunter and published by DreadXP. The sequel to Sucker for Love: First Date, it was released April 23, 2024, for Microsoft Windows. A loose adaptation of H. P. Lovecraft's The Shadow over Innsmouth, its main character, Stardust, enters an isolated town while investigating a series of mysterious disappearances. She soon discovers that a goat-like fertility goddess known as Rhok'zan has been trapped by cultists, who are misusing her for dark rituals, and must help free her from them while keeping her unharmed. The game's aesthetic takes heavy inspiration from 1990s anime. It received positive reviews from critics, who cited its gameplay, graphics and writing, considering it a more polished and newcomer-friendly entry than its predecessor and praising its inclusiveness.  Gameplay The game is set in a large, ever-changing Japanese-style house in the town of Sacramen-cho. The player, upon finding Rhok'zan, must explore the house in an adventure game manner to find materials and perform occult rituals while avoiding death at the hands of murderous cultists, some encounters of which are portrayed as optional jump scares. The main character, Stardust, may also flirt with Rhok'zan, but the game can be played without anything sexually suggestive. Stardust is portrayed as asexual, and can use a spray bottle to ward off Rhok'zan's attempts to invoke lust.  Plot The main character, Stardust, investigates mysterious disappearances in her hometown, Sacramen-cho. Finding herself kidnapped, she has no choice but to use the cultists' spellbook to summon Rhok'zan, The All-Mother and Black Goat of the Woods, an anthropomorphic goat who is a parody of Shub-Niggurath, in order to attempt to escape. The game has multiple endings.  Development Stardust was made asexual to contrast with Rhok'zan, a goddess of lust and fertility. Thus, despite Rhok'zan's temptations, she is solely focused on her investigation. The idea of a black protagonist was inspired by Lovecraft Country, which used a historical narrative about bigotry to draw attention to Lovecraft's racist themes. The episode "Sundown", about a "sundown town" in which black people would be unsafe, parallels the cultists' control of Sacramen-cho. Hunter refuted the idea that her race was due to a "diversity quota", saying he believed she was the best character for the story.  Reception Elijah Gonzalez of Paste Magazine called the game one of the best at PAX East 2023, calling its writing earnest, in contrast to cynical romance/horror "fake-out" titles. Stating that he enjoyed its "old-school anime" aesthetic, and was "drawn in" by the contrast between its "lively" art style and "oppressive mood", he believed it could be an indie hit. Rebecca Jones of Rock Paper Shotgun called the game one of her most anticipated of 2023, saying that while she had hoped it would be a direct sequel to the original title, she was nevertheless delighted that the first game was part of a planned trilogy, and that it would be released not long after the first, jokingly saying that the game's concept was "relaxing" and "not at all menacing". Allisa James of TechRadar praised the game for "breaking new ground" with its asexual lead character, as well as maintaining a Lovecraftian feel while avoiding alienating people with its themes, singling out its use of glowing eyes to represent cult members for being racially agnostic. She urged people to play the game, citing the depth of the main character's story. Ryuichi Matsumoto of 4Gamer.net expressed interest in the game, but wrote that it was strange that a game with an anime introduction and inspirations did not have Japanese-language support, noting it was targeted at Western anime fans. He suggested that Japanese players try it despite this, in the hope that the developer would consider adding a Japanese localization. Post-release, Rebecca Jones of VG247 called it "a stylish and well-written visual novel" that stood out from others, while balancing a horror and love story. Kara Phillips of PC Gamer also recommended the game, describing the gameplay as unnerving, and Rhok'zan as a heavily likeable character.   == References ==

A master production schedule (MPS) is a plan for individual commodities to be produced in each time period such as production, staffing, inventory, etc. It is usually linked to manufacturing where the plan indicates when and how much of each product will be demanded. This plan quantifies significant processes, parts, and other resources in order to optimize production, to identify bottlenecks, and to anticipate needs and completed goods. Since a MPS drives much factory activity, its accuracy and viability dramatically affect profitability. Typical MPSs are created by software with user tweaking. Due to software limitations, but especially the intense work required by the "master production schedulers", schedules do not include every aspect of production, but only key elements that have proven their control effectivity, such as forecast demand, production costs, inventory costs, lead time, working hours, capacity, inventory levels, available storage, and parts supply. The choice of what to model varies among companies and factories. The MPS is a statement of what the company expects to produce and purchase (i.e. quantity to be produced, staffing levels, dates, available to promise, projected balance). The MPS translates the customer demand (sales orders, PIR’s), into a build plan using planned orders in a true component scheduling environment. Using MPS helps avoid shortages, costly expediting, last minute scheduling, and inefficient allocation of resources.   Working with MPS allows businesses to consolidate planned parts, produce master schedules and forecasts for any level of the Bill of Material (BOM) for any type of part.  How an MPS works By using many variables as inputs the MPS will generate a set of outputs used for decision making.  Inputs may include forecast demand, production costs, inventory money, customer needs, inventory progress, supply, lot size, production lead time, and capacity. Inputs may be automatically generated by an ERP system that links a sales department with a production department. For instance, when the sales department records a sale, the forecast demand may be automatically shifted to meet the new demand. Inputs may also be inputted manually from forecasts that have also been calculated manually.  Outputs may include amounts to be produced, staffing levels, quantity available to promise, and projected available balance. Outputs may be used to create a Material Requirements Planning (MRP) schedule. A master production schedule may be necessary for organizations to synchronize their operations and become more efficient. An effective MPS ultimately will:  Give production, planning, purchasing, and management the information to plan and control manufacturing Tie overall business planning and forecasting to detail operations Enable marketing to make legitimate delivery commitments to warehouses and customers Increase the efficiency and accuracy of a company's manufacturing Rough cut capacity planning MPS issues:  Width of the time bucket Planning horizon Rolling plan Time fencing Schedule freezing  Production plan An example of a master production schedule for "product A".  See also Material Requirements Planning MRP II Scheduling ERP Manufacturing Available-to-promise   == References ==

Barton Booth (1682 – 10 May 1733) was one of the most famous dramatic actors of the first part of the 18th century.  Early life Booth was the son of The Hon and Very Revd Dr Robert Booth, Dean of Bristol, by his first wife and distant cousin Ann Booth, daughter of Sir Robert Booth, Lord Chief Justice of Ireland, and was educated at Westminster School, where his success in the Roman comedy Andria gave him a gave him an inclination for the stage. He was intended for the church, and to attend Trinity College, Cambridge; but in 1698 he ran away and obtained employment in a theatrical company in Dublin, where he made his first appearance as the title character in Aphra Behn's Oroonoko.  London success After two seasons in Ireland he returned to London, where Thomas Betterton, who had previously failed to help him, probably out of regard for Booth's family, now gave him all the assistance in his power. At the Lincoln's Inn Fields Theatre (1700–1704) he first appeared as Maximus in Valentinian, and his success was immediate. He was at the Haymarket with Betterton from 1705 to 1708, and for the next twenty years at Drury Lane. In 1713 he joint-managed the theater with Thomas Doggett, Colley Cibber, and Robert Wilks. After his death on 10 May 1733, Booth was buried in St Laurence Cowley near Uxbridge in Middlesex. His widow had a memorial to Booth placed in Westminster Abbey in 1772. This was created by William Tyler RA.  Roles His greatest parts, after the title part of Joseph Addison's Cato, which established his reputation as a tragedian, were probably Hotspur and Brutus. His King Lear was deemed worthy of comparison with David Garrick's. As the ghost in Hamlet he is said never to have had a superior. Among his other Shakespearian rôles were Mark Antony, Timon of Athens and Othello. He also played to perfection Lothario in Nicholas Rowe's The Fair Penitent. He also starred in Rowe's tragedies Ulysses (1705) as Telemachus and The Royal Convert (1707) as Hengist, King of Kent. In 1710 he starred as Athelwold in Aaron Hill's Elfrid. He starred as Coriolanus in the 1719 play The Invader of His Country by John Dennis. In 1724 he featured in John Gay's tragedy The Captives as Sophernes. Booth was twice married; his second wife, Hester Santlow, a noted actress, survived him. He was a "poet and acholar as well as actor, and certainly a man of genius...."  Death From 1727, Booth was afflicted by ill health and in 1733 eventually called for Thomas Dover, "Doctor Quicksilver", who prescribed him quicksilver. He ingested 2 pounds of mercury and died in a week. "I endeavour'd to divide the Rectum and tie it , but it was so rotten that it broke between my Fingers like Tinder , and sent forth a most offensive cadaverous Stench..." The whole intestinal track on the inside was covered with black balls of mercury the size of pinheads. This famous case greatly reduced the medicinal use of elemental mercury.  Selected roles Notes References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Booth, Barton". Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 4 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. p. 238. This cites: Cibber, Lives and Characters of the most eminent Actors and Actresses (1753) Victor, Memoirs of the Life of Barton Booth (1733)  Bibliography  See Cibber, Lives and Characters of the most eminent Actors and Actresses (1753). An etext version is available at the University of Virginia Victor, Memoirs of the Life of Barton Booth (1733). Winter, William. Shakespeare on the Stage. New York, Moffat, Yard and Co., 1915.

The King's College Criteria or the King's College Hospital criteria were devised in 1989 to determine if there were any early indices of poor prognosis in patients with acute liver failure.  Acute liver failure is defined as the onset of encephalopathy (altered mental status) or coagulopathy (altered bleeding tendencies) within 26 weeks of a patient diagnosed with liver disease.  Patients with hepatitis B acquired at birth, Wilson's disease and autoimmune hepatitis are included if their disease was identified within the past 26 weeks.  These patients are very ill, and have a very high risk of dying of their illness without adequate treatment which may include liver transplantation.  It is important that physicians find ways of identifying patients with acute liver failure early in their course who will do poorly, and may require liver transplantation.  The King's College Criteria have consistently shown excellent operating characteristics for determining prognosis in these patients.  As liver transplantation becomes a more accessible option for patients with acute liver failure, the King's College Criteria serve a role in determining which patients may require transplantation.  Criteria The King's College criteria were described in a seminal publication in 1989 by J.G. O'Grady and colleagues from King's College School of Medicine.  588 patients with acute liver failure who presented to King's College Hospital from 1973 to 1985 were assessed retrospectively to determine if there were particular clinical features or tests that correlated poorly with prognosis.  The criteria were stratified into acetaminophen and non-acetaminophen causes of acute liver failure, due to the different operating characteristics of parameters correlating with prognosis in the two causes.  Paracetamol induced acute liver failure Acetaminophen (or paracetamol) is an analgesic medication that can affect the liver when administered in high doses.  Acetaminophen is predominantly conjugated into glucuronate and sulfate moieties by Phase II metabolism.  A small percentage is metabolized by the cytochrome P450 pathway to a toxic metabolite, NAPQI.  NAPQI is conjugated by glutathione to non-toxic cysteine and mercapturic acid moieties.  In cases of acetaminophen toxicity, the Phase II conjugation enzymes are saturated, and a higher fraction is converted to NAPQI.  The conjugation of NAPQI to glutathione occurs until glutathione is depleted from hepatic reserves, after which the toxic NAPQI accumulates and causes damage to the hepatocytes.  This occurs primarily in areas of the liver that are relatively poorly perfused with oxygen, or furthest away from the hepatic artery, termed Zone 3.  Acetaminophen overdose is associated with Zone 3 necrosis, to the point that acute liver failure may result. The King's College Criteria identify two groups of patients that have a poor prognosis with acetaminophen induced liver failure:  Arterial pH < 7.3 (taken by sampling of blood from an artery); or, All three of an international normalized ratio (INR) of greater than 6.5, serum creatinine of greater than 300 micromoles per litre and the presence of encephalopathy (of grade III or IV).  These three are markers of coagulopathy, kidney function and mental status.  Non-paracetamol acute liver failure There are many causes of acute liver failure aside from acetaminophen toxicity; these include viral hepatitis—including hepatitis A (rarely), hepatitis B, hepatitis C (rarely), hepatitis E (especially in pregnant women),  Epstein–Barr virus, cytomegalovirus and varicella zoster virus -- Wilson's disease, the toxin of the death cap mushroom (Amanita phalloides), alcohol, autoimmune hepatitis, Budd–Chiari syndrome, other medications (including halothane, hormonal contraception, and isoniazid), recreational drugs (including ecstasy [1]) and, rarely, tumours infiltrating the liver. In patients with non-acetaminophen acute liver failure, the following criteria were identified as being associated with a poor prognosis:  INR greater than 6.5; or, Three of the following five criteria: Patient age of less than 11 or greater than 40; Serum bilirubin of greater than 300 micromoles per litre; Time from onset of jaundice to the development of coma of greater than seven days; INR greater than 3.5; or, Drug toxicity, regardless of whether it was the cause of the acute liver failure.  Utility in prediction The utility of the criteria in determining the prognosis of patients with acute liver failure is defined by their operating characteristics.  The positive predictive value of the criteria in predicting death from acute liver failure has ranged from 70% to 100%.  A Canadian meta-analysis assessing various prognostic indices found that the specificity of the King's College criteria in predicting mortality exceeded 90%, with a sensitivity of 69%.  As a result, the American Society for Study of Liver Diseases has recommended the King's College Criteria as being helpful early parameters in ascertaining the need for liver transplantation in patients with acute liver failure.  Alternatives A variety of other calculations have been done based on similar parameters to determine the risk of mortality in acute liver failure.  The Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) score has a comparable sensitivity to the King's College Criteria in determining prognosis.   == References ==

The Landesjugendorchester Baden-Württemberg (Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg, LJO), founded in 1972, is a youth orchestra based in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. The orchestra gives a concert tour in Baden-Württemberg twice a year, and has travelled abroad on several occasions.  History and structure of the LJO The Landesjugendorchester Baden-Württemberg was founded in 1972 by Klaus Matakas and Dietmar Mantel. They put together an ensemble of young musicians, who at that time had already been playing in the symphony orchestra of the music school in Lahr, appointing Christoph Wyneken as conductor.  Shortly thereafter, a hand-picked selection of musicians as well as "Jugend musiziert" (Teenagers performing Classical Music) laureates from all over Baden-Wuerttemberg applied to audition. The LJO has numerous partnerships with other German orchestras. On 7 November 2005, for instance, on the occasion of the joint initiative of the Association of German Orchestras, the German Jeunesses Musicales and the Association of German Conservatoires, the Stuttgart State Orchestra and the Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg launched the "tutti pro" orchestra partnership. Other partnerships were formed during concert tours abroad.  To enter the "LJO Pool" musicians have to pass an audition. The "LJO Pool" contains about 350 young musicians aged between 13 and 22, who play all kinds of orchestral instruments. Between 85 and 120 musicians participate in each working phase.  The office of the LJO is in Stuttgart-North in the rooms of the "Landesverband der Musikschulen Baden-Württemberg" (roughly translated as "state association of the music schools of Baden-Wuerttemberg"). Since 2008, the LJO has been employing one volunteer each year ("voluntary cultural year"(FSJ Kultur)).  Artistic director The co-founder of the Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg, Christoph Wyneken, was actively engaged as the creative director until 2013, from which point onward the creative director as well as conductor have been replaced at the start of every work period. Johannes Klumpp is the creative advisor.  Working phase (schedule) As the LJO is a project orchestra, no regular weekly rehearsals take place but working phases twice a year, always in the Easter and autumn holidays. In these periods, full-length concert programmes are rehearsed, which contain classical-romantic pieces of the concert literature as well as new music.  Every working phase contains extensive rehearsals of the chosen pieces with section (register) rehearsals which are supervised by top-class tutors as well as tutti-rehearsals with the artistic director of the respective working phase. Every working phase is followed by a concert tour throughout Baden-Württemberg with up to 7 concerts. There are also some special projects with shorter rehearsal times and fewer concerts.  Audition Auditions usually take place once a year in the Stuttgart area, giving musicians opportunity to showcase their talent and skills. The audition panel comprises creative advisors and tutors of the instrument. Audition dates are announced on the official website of the Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg. Once the date has been set and made public, musicians interested in participating can register and choose the most convenient date from a list of possible audition dates. The orchestral audition comprises a ten-minute performance. The applicant is expected to prepare and play orchestral excerpts and a fast and slow movement  free of choice, but usually encompassing two periods of classical music. If the participant is successful in passing the audition, they become part of the orchestra pool and may be selected for upcoming rehearsals and concerts.  International trips Italy (1983) France (1989) Spain (1991) United Kingdom (1994) Russia (1995) Poland (2002) Egypt (2006) Madagascar (2008) Ecuador (2009)  Madagascar On 15 May 2008 Germany and Madagascar celebrated the 125th anniversary of the German–Madagascan Treaty of Friendship. As part of the "Aktion Afrika" ("Action Africa") and in cooperation with the German Ambassy in Antananarivo the Foreign Office planned the official festivities on the fourth biggest island in the world. Receiving an invitation to form the accompanying cultural programme between 9 and 19 May, the LJO delegated a 19 member brass ensemble.  Ecuador From September 1 to 18 2009, the Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg, boasting an ensemble of 45 musicians, performed a total of fifteen concerts to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Ecuadorian independence, all under the leadership of artistic director Christoph Wyneken. The orchestra also hosted a number of workshops and meet-and-greet events with Ecuadorian school children. After meeting with its fellow orchestra "Orquestra Sinfónica Juvenil de Guayaquil” in Guayaquil, the Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg performed a joint concert alongside its Ecuadorian counterpart, playing the first movement of Ludwig van Beethoven’s Symphony No. 5.  Financing The Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg has numerous supporters and sponsors including the federal state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, the association of savings banks of Baden-Wuerttemberg, the regional association of music schools of Baden-Wuerttemberg and the Stuttgart State Orchestra. Concert revenue constitutes another major source of income. The sponsorship association and the Foundation of the Youth Orchestra of Baden-Wuerttemberg provide additional financial backing, as well as the revenue generated by the sales of CDs, DVDs and programmes.  Awards and nominations Awards European Prize of the Youth Orchestra of the foundation "Pro Europa" ("Pro Europe"), on 2 November 2008 "Leonberger Jugendmusikpreis" (Prize of the city of Leonberg (near Stuttgart) for young musicians), 27 times in a row, last time in 2010  Nominations "Kulturmarken-Award" ("Cultural Mark Award") 2008 (presented by KulturSPIEGEL) – one of the "trend marks in 2008" (as first youth orchestra ever). The Kulturmarken-Award is promoted by Škoda Germany, Apollinaris (mineral water company), Bionade and the Deutschen Bahn AG. "Kulturmarken-Award" 2015 – "European Education Programme of 2015" with the special programme Apollo 18 – Musiktheater im Jugendknast ("Apollo 18 – music theatre in the juvenile prison")  Productions The LJO produced several CDs and DVDs, some of which include the following:  Guest conductors and soloists The LJO has worked together with many reputable artists. A selection:  Guest conductors/artistic directors Thomas Ungar Till Drömann Patrick Strub Wolf-Dieter Hauschild Nicolas Pasquet David Afkham Hannes Krämer (Autumn 2014) Hermann Bäumer (Spring 2015) Anna-Sophie Brüning (Autumn 2015 – Apollo 18!) Johannes Klumpp (Autumn 2015) David Philip Hefti (Spring 2016) Peter Tilling (Autumn 2016)  Soloists Aaron Rosand, Alexander Sitkowetski, Alexander Zeiher, Koh Gabriel Kameda, Ulrike Anima Mathé, Maria-Elisabeth Lott, Lukas Stepp, Elena Graf, Oscar Bohórquez, Kathrin Scheungraber (violin) Tabea Zimmermann, Boris Faust, Hanna Breuer (viola) Christoph Henkel, Claudio Bohórquez, Emanuel Graf (cello) Kersten McCall (flute) Markus Frank (horn) Wolfgang Bauer, Reinhold Friedrich (trumpet) Xiao Xiao Zhu, Moye Kolodin, Alexej Gorlatch (piano) Jakob Spahn (cello) Esther Hoppe (violin)  See also List of youth orchestras  References External links Official Website of the Landesjugendorchesters Baden-Württemberg

"Milkshake" is a song by American singer Kelis from her third studio album, Tasty (2003). Written and produced by the Neptunes, it was released as the lead single from Tasty in the United States on August 25, 2003, by Star Trak and Arista Records, and internationally on November 24, 2003. According to Kelis, "milkshake" in the song is used as a metaphor for "something that makes women special". The song is noted for its euphemistic chorus and low-beat R&B sound. "Milkshake" peaked at number three on the US Billboard Hot 100 in December 2003, becoming Kelis' highest-charting single to date. Elsewhere, the single topped the charts in Ireland and peaked inside the top 10 of the charts in Australia, Denmark, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. "Milkshake" was certified Gold in the United States, where it has sold 883,000 paid downloads. The song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Urban/Alternative Performance in 2004. In 2023, Kelis released "Milkshake 20" (Alex Wann Remix), which she co-produced.  Background "Milkshake" was written and produced by Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo, known collectively as the Neptunes. The song was conceived when Tasty was chosen as the album's title. When making the song, Kelis "knew right away that it was a really good song", and she wanted it to be the album's first single. Recording sessions took place at Hovercraft Studios in Virginia Beach, Virginia. Phil Tan mixed the recordings at Right Track Studios in New York City. When asked about the meaning of the song, Kelis told The Observer that "It means whatever people want it to; it was just a word we came up with on a whim, but then the song took on a life of its own." However, in an interview with the Associated Press, she likened one's milkshake to one's self-confidence: "A milkshake is the thing that makes women special. It's what gives us our confidence and what makes us exciting."  Composition "Milkshake" is an R&B song, and Joey Rivaldo of About.com described it as a "low beat dance song". The song is noted for its chorus, in which Kelis sings "My milkshake brings all the boys to the yard". The line was referred to as a "sexy, euphemistic playground rap" by MTV News. The song's riff was described as "blaring synth-funk". Unlike many urban pop songs, which rely on drum machines, the beat consists of a lone darbuka playing a rhythm similar to a belly dance. A manjira sample resembling an order-up counter bell is used throughout the song. Andy Kellman of AllMusic compared the song's suggestive lyrics to "Nasty Girl" by Vanity 6, "In My House" by Mary Jane Girls and "Touch It" by Monifah. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by EMI Music Publishing, "Milkshake" has a moderate tempo of 113 beats per minute. This song is in the key of C♯ minor (C♯ Phrygian).  Critical reception "Milkshake" received critical acclaim upon its release, both for its production as well as Kelis' vocal performance. About.com's Joey Rivaldo rated the song four out of five stars, and stated: "Clearly this is the case of my milkshake is better than yours, so grab yours quick, or we'll have to charge." While reviewing the soundtrack to the film Mean Girls (2004), in which "Milkshake" is featured, Heather Phares of AllMusic wrote that the song describes "the movie's playfully menacing undercurrent", and called the song "fantastic", and that it is "basically a three-minute tutorial in sex appeal." Rollie Pemberton of Pitchfork called the song "brilliant", and said: "Equal parts cantina gyration and future-funk, Kelis plays the coquette, enticing the entire American male populace with rhythmic coos while simultaneously providing an apt tutorial for aspiring temptresses." Bjorn Randolph of Stylus Magazine said that the song "may well be remembered as their [the Neptunes'] masterpiece". Mark Danson of Contactmusic.com was not very fond of the song, criticizing the Neptunes' sound, and said: "as it sounds like [Pharrell] Williams has done this one in his sleep, it'll probably slip under the radar unless it has a fairly decent video to back it up. It's obviously supposed to be a kind of sexy electronica, but it just ends up sounding slack." Tony Naylor of NME called the song "probably the oddest track" on the Tasty album. Adam Webb of Yahoo! Music UK said that the song "nestles in seamlessly, the rhythm as relentless as a parade of majorettes with Kelis upfront as the cheerleader." Neil Drumming of Entertainment Weekly called the song a "lusty party anthem". Ernest Hardy of Rolling Stone called it "the superfreakiest song on the charts", Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine called it "thick and creamy", Steve Jones of USA Today called it "saucy", and Dorian Lynskey of The Guardian said that in the song "Kelis exploits her husky croon like never before, pouring it over lascivious double entendre." The Observer named the song the best single of 2004. In 2004, Pitchfork made a list of the top 50 singles of 2003 and listed the song at number eight. In 2005, Pitchfork made a list of the top 100 singles of 2000–2004, listing "Milkshake" at number 21. Stylus Magazine named the song the 13th-best single of 2000–2005. In September 2011, VH1 ranked the song at number 61 on its list of the "100 Greatest Songs of the '00s". In October 2011, NME placed it at number 136 on its list "150 Best Tracks of the Past 15 Years". In 2004, "Milkshake" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Urban/Alternative Performance.  Commercial performance "Milkshake" debuted at number 73 on the September 6, 2003, chart of the Billboard Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, and peaked at number four on January 3, 2004. In October 2003, it debuted at number 95 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It was Kelis' second entry on the chart, following "Caught out There", which spent 12 weeks on the chart between December 1999 and February 2000. In its 13th week on the chart, "Milkshake" reached its peak of number three, and stayed there for five consecutive weeks. The song charted on the Hot 100 for 22 weeks, and was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on October 25, 2004. "Milkshake" also spent a week atop the Hot Dance Club Songs chart in December 2003. The song has sold 883,000 paid digital downloads in the United States, according to Nielsen SoundScan. It was listed at number 41 on the 2004 Hot 100 year-end chart, and number 41 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs year-end chart. The single debuted at number 15 on the Irish Singles Chart, and later topped the chart for five consecutive weeks. In the United Kingdom, "Milkshake" peaked at number two on the UK Singles Chart, where it remained for four consecutive weeks, and has been certified Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). Elsewhere in Europe, the track reached the top five in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, and the top 10 in Netherlands. In Australia, "Milkshake" peaked at number two on the ARIA Singles Chart for five non-consecutive weeks and has been certified Platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). It also peaked at number three on the New Zealand Singles Chart and has been certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ).  Music video The music video for "Milkshake" was directed by Jake Nava. In the video, Kelis enters a diner called Tasty's Yard. She dances suggestively, and puts her lips around a cherry, which causes a mother to cover her child's eyes. A cook, played by rapper Nas, starts delivering milkshakes to the customers while Kelis dances. A milkshake machine then starts spurting milkshake all over the customers, and more and more people enter the "yard". FHM named the music video the 73rd sexiest music video by a female performer of all time and commented: "Here she's backed up by a posse of dancers wearing tiny diner uniforms. The way she sucks a milkshake and bites a cherry is just unfairly sexy", and said that the best part is when Kelis demonstrates a "perfect bending-over-oven technique".  Usage in media The song has been featured in numerous television series and films including The Simpsons, Family Guy, Jane the Virgin, South Park, The Glee Project,  George Lopez, Nip/Tuck, The New Normal, The Haunted Mansion, Mean Girls, Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story, King's Ransom, The Big Short, Ugly Betty, Date Movie, 2 Broke Girls, Norbit and Identity Thief. It appeared in season 3, episode 8 of Sex Education. The song was covered by Australian rock band The Pictures in 2005 as part of youth radio station Triple J's Like a Version segment. The song was also covered by Ashleigh Murray, Asha Bromfield and Madelaine Petsch in the episode "Chapter Fifteen: Nighthawks" from the second season of the television series Riverdale. The song was also covered by Robyn Adele Anderson in 2020.  Track listings Personnel Credits adapted from the liner notes of Tasty.  Recording Recorded at Hovercraft Studios (Virginia Beach, Virginia) Mixed at Right Track Studios (New York City) Mastered at Sterling Sound (New York City)  Personnel The Neptunes – production Andrew "Drew" Coleman – recording Daniel Betancourt – recording assistance Phil Tan – mixing Tim Olmstead – mixing assistance Chris Athens – mastering  Charts Certifications Release history   == References ==

Kelley Ashby Paul (born September 3, 1963) is an American political consultant and freelance writer. She has worked as a consultant for The Strategy Group for Media, and she published a book titled True and Constant Friends in April 2015. Her husband is ophthalmologist and U.S. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. Paul is a graduate of Rhodes College. She is actively engaged in fundraising for veterans charities, in addition to her work for a political consulting firm.  Early life and education Kelley Ashby was born in Russellville, Kentucky, the daughter of Lillian (Wessell) and Hilton Ray Ashby, a military family. Kelley has described her grandmother, an Irish immigrant who traveled the United States as a teenager, as one of her greatest life influences. Kelley spent much of her early life moving around the country, describing herself as an "Air Force brat". Her family lived for a few years in Turkey as well. She graduated from Russellville High School, where she was a member of the cheerleader squad. Following her graduation from high school, Kelley attended Rhodes College, where she focused on the fields of communication and English. In 1988, Kelley met Rand Paul at a backyard oyster roast in Atlanta. Rand Paul was completing a surgical rotation at Georgia Baptist Hospital while working on his medical degree at the Duke University School of Medicine. At first Kelley thought that Rand was a teenager, and unaware that he was actually a 26-year-old doctor. They began dating while Rand Paul completed his rotation program, and Rand asked Kelley to move back with him to North Carolina and try to find a job in the Durham area so that they could continue being together. On October 20, 1990, the couple married, and eventually moved to Kentucky in 1993 when an ophthalmologist position opened up in the city of Bowling Green. Paul would go on to help her husband with producing newsletters and mailings for his practice, running the payroll, keeping the books, and managing a remodel of the building where he saw patients.  Later career Leading up to her husband's election to the United States Senate, Paul began freelance writing, and focusing more on her own career as a private citizen. In addition, she also worked for the political consulting firm The Strategy Group for Media, with one of her clients being then-U.S. Senate candidate Ted Cruz of Texas. She also maintains a board position at Helping a Hero, a charity that builds houses for wounded war veterans. During her husband's campaign, Paul gave political speeches on behalf of her husband, including speaking to Republican women's groups, and participating in commercial advertisements on behalf of his campaign. In the lead up to Rand Paul's decision to run for President of the United States, Kelley Paul began writing a book focused on her long lasting friendships, as well as her own family history titled True and Constant Friends: Love and Inspiration from Our Grandmothers, Mothers, and Friends. Many political consultants have referred to Kelley Paul as Senator Paul's "secret weapon" and describing her as a "very confident person, very comfortable, and she complements [Rand] well". She played a key role in the decision regarding whether her husband would run for president, but stated that it was a much easier decision than deciding to run for U.S. Senate in mid-2009. In late September 2015, Paul filed for her husband to appear on the ballot in the South Carolina primary. In January 2016, after Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton came under criticism for her husband Bill Clinton's past relationship with White House intern Monica Lewinsky, Paul said in an interview that Bill Clinton was "fair game" since he had become involved with his wife's campaign and that while it may not have been just, "I think we all know that's the way it is in politics now". It was reported that she would be joining her husband in touring Iowa that month in an effort to garner more support for his campaign. In 2018, Paul advocated for passage of the First Step Act, meeting with senators and conducting public interviews (including appearing on Fox News) to try to build support for the bill. Paul says she was enlightened on the need for criminal justice reform by her husband Rand and father-in-law Ron Paul, whose advocacy "opened [her] eyes to the extent of how bad our system is broken and how people are suffering through that". On August 11, 2021, Kelley Paul's husband Rand Paul disclosed that Kelley had purchased a stake in Gilead Sciences, which manufactures an antiviral drug used to treat COVID-19, on February 26, 2020.  Personal life Kelley Paul and Rand Paul were married on October 20, 1990, and have three sons, two of whom have attended the University of Kentucky, while one attended a private school in the Washington, D.C. area.  References External links  Official website Appearances on C-SPAN

Gregory P. Hawkins (born September 22, 1957) is an American speaker, writer, teacher, lawyer and former elected official.  Personal information Born on September 22, 1957, Hawkins is the son of Joye (née Strange) and Paul Edward Hawkins. Hawkins is a fifth generation Utahn, his great-great-grandmother having arrived in the Salt Lake Valley with one of the first handcart companies. His father served with the U.S. Army occupation force in Germany after World War II and received a commission to the U.S. Air Force upon graduating from the University of Utah. Hawkins lived outside Utah during most of his childhood because his father's military and work assignments took the family to California, Hawaii, Georgia, Florida, and Kentucky.  As a young man, Hawkins worked in a fast food restaurant, hardware store, a landscaping business, and as an electrician's assistant. He started his first business when he was 12 years old setting up a concessions stand at a recreation center in Florida. Hawkins' entrepreneurial spirit continued through his youth: he built and sold surfboards, marketed farm supplies, painted houses, and cleaned carpets.Hawkins graduated from Kentucky's Bardstown High School in 1974. He then served an LDS mission. After his service, Hawkins began his studies at the University of Utah, but transferred to Brigham Young University in 1979. He graduated with his bachelor's degree in Political Science in 1981. After graduation, Hawkins obtained his Juris Doctor from the University of Utah in 1984. Hawkins is married to Arlene Joy Van Der Beek.  Speaker Hawkins has been both a public speaker and a professional speaker since the 1980s. He has spoken in hundreds of settings, thousands of times to tens of thousands of people. Some of his speeches have been reduced to written and CD form. Currently, Hawkins speaks on topics ranging from law to ethics to faith to public policy. Some of these have been organized into keynote, half-day, and full-day seminars; especially designed for professional continuing education and corporate training.  Writer Hawkins has written articles that have been published in over 40 publications on subjects ranging from legal topics to management to American political philosophy to ethics. He published his first book in 2012 – Jesus was Adopted: Triumph of the Human Spirit from the Lives of Celebrated People Who Were Adopted—reworked and republished under the title We Were Adopted. Hawkins's second book was published in early 2014 and co-authored with Lonn Litchfield – Corruption: Fraud, Embezzlement, and Other Bad Acts and the Auditors that Found Them.  Hawkins' third book was also published in 2014, titled, Citizenship: An Introduction to Social Ethics Re-examined. His most recent book, It's "B," a Different Kind of Hero. He continues to write articles and work on book projects. The book he cherishes most is, DEAR CHILDREN, Your Father's Assurance of Things Hope for.  Teacher Hawkins began working for the educational system of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints as a seminary teacher in 1986. His first assignment was at the seminary adjacent to West High School in Salt Lake City. While continuing his work at West High, he began teaching Institute classes at the University of Utah Law School in 1993. Hawkins became the principal of the West High seminary in 1997 until he quit in 1999 in order to run for the U.S. Senate.After the campaign in 2000, Hawkins returned to teaching. He began work at the Institute adjacent to Salt Lake Community College campus, where he later became the Director. In 2002, he finished his time in Church Education in order to spend more time on his private law practice and public policy.  Lawyer Hawkins has practiced law for over 38 years. He has successfully handled cases from complex brain injury to routine soft tissue injury, from medical malpractice to products liability, from trademark infringement to securities fraud, from sexual harassment to federal civil rights, from slip and fall to dog bites, from simple real estate to complex contract disputes, from protection of parental rights to termination of parental rights. An adoptive father himself, Hawkins has been described "as one of the most experienced and knowledgeable adoption lawyers in the state." He has finalized and litigated hundreds of adoptions. Today, Hawkins focuses his entire practice on legally preparing clients for death – Trust Centered Estate Planning. His primary focus is to keep clients and their families out of court through proper legal preparation and to achieve their estate planning goals.  Public office U.S. Senate candidate Billed as the "Citizen Candidate," on June 16, 1999, Hawkins announced his candidacy for United States Senate. Within days of his announcement, Hawkins began to travel the state, speaking to small groups.  In 2000, Hawkins filed his candidacy for the United States Senate and challenged Sen. Hatch for the Republican nomination. Although described as "too well funded", Hawkins lacked the political action funds and personal wealth traditionally used to pay for senate campaigns. Instead, Hawkins relied on donations from supporters and his own savings from working as a teacher and attorney. Instead of money, the campaign used direct access to the candidate as	its primary weapon. Hawkins crossed the state again and again, meeting in homes, libraries, senior centers and the occasional lecture hall. Because Hawkins was facing a member of his own party, antagonism proved unavoidable. It increased each week as Hawkins demonstrated that he posed a genuine challenge to the incumbent Senator. Despite the competitive atmosphere, both candidates were respectful and cordial throughout the campaign. After more than 18 months of campaigning, Hawkins faced Hatch at the Republican Convention. Hawkins's opposition to the incumbent was uncommon: “Although challenged in the past, no one had ever managed to mount a serious re-election challenge to Utah's four-term, senior Senator.” After the votes were counted, Hawkins had lost the opportunity for a primary by a narrow margin: 54 of the 3600 ballots cast or roughly 1.5% of the voting body. After losing, and at the same convention, Hawkins was drafted by gubernatorial candidate Glen Davis to be his primary running mate. Hawkins appeared on the primary ballot statewide as the candidate for Lt. Governor.  U.S. House of Representatives candidate In 2004, Hawkins faced Rep. Chris Cannon for the Utah's 3rd Congressional District seat in the House of Representatives.  Ultimately, Cannon became the Republican nominee and won the election with 63.4% of the vote.  Elected auditor In 2010, Hawkins ran for Salt Lake County Auditor. He defeated the incumbent Jeff Hatch (D) by 1.09% of the vote. As the Salt Lake County Auditor, Hawkins' office was responsible for uncovering and investigating wrongdoing within county government organizations including cases of misuse and theft of public funds  fraud.  Controversy Prior to Hawkins' taking office, the previously elected auditor produced an average of less than 11 audits per year. Hawkins' office produced more than 180 audits during a three-year period. The average number of violations uncovered per month increased from less than 10 to 54. For the first time in the history of the auditor's office, all 200 county entities were audited in one Auditor's term. The increased number of audits translated directly into better county government. Hawkins made over 1,100 recommendations to county agencies to help them improve their compliance with county fiscal rules. Agencies implemented nearly all of his recommendations. There have been approximately 35 criminal charges that have come from audits completed under Hawkins' direction. "These audits are helping us review our internal processes and make improvements,” says Darrin Casper, chief financial officer for the county mayor. “Greg takes a positive view that minimizes people's resistance to change." His ability to greatly increase performance showed up in the work of the Property Tax Division, as well. Hawkins created a new property tax notice beginning in 2013. Casper said it "was the easiest to understand tax notice I have seen in years". JodiAnn Martin, a county employee of 34 years and the director of the auditor's Property Tax Division, agreed and added, “He always finds something else to improve, like streamlining the annual May tax sale.” Hawkins has a knack for finding problems in government and fixing them. "He's relentless", Martin says. "He is creative, with a constant vision for creating a better product that takes less time and money to produce. He goes after it even when the forces for keeping the status quo seem impenetrable." "He is utterly courageous", says Hawkins' chief deputy auditor, Lonn Litchfield. "When the powers that be unlawfully took from his control the accounting and budget functions that he had been elected to provide, and that had been in the auditor's office for over 100 years, he had a tough choice to make. Each of his division directors urged him to protect the office by filing a lawsuit. Greg knew that filing a lawsuit would take an enormous personal toll and probably have political consequences. He put aside his personal concerns and filed a lawsuit to maintain the checks and balances that were in the law. Before the court ruled on the merits of the case, the legislature changed the law. Greg believes in the rule of law and tries to follow the law with exactness. When the law was changed, he dropped the lawsuit. Again, he did the courageous thing and sought for reconciliation with his political and legal opponents." Hawkins' commitment to public service goes beyond good government. Brad Rogers, administrative and fiscal manager of the Auditor's office who has worked for two governors and the Boy Scouts of America, said, “Greg realized we had people in the office with a strong commitment to public service, so we started teaching Boy Scout citizenship merit badge classes once a month. We were hoping for 20 scouts per class, but we have often had more than 100. Greg has helped scouts earn over 2,500 merit badges.” Hawkins lost his bid for reelection in 2014.  Publications     “IT’S B” A Different Kind of Hero,  Epiphany Publishing 2021, ISBN 978-1935821-58-8. DEAR CHILDREN, Your Father's Assurance of Things Hoped For, Epiphany Publishing 2020, ISBN 978-1-935821-53-3. Aspirational Ethics and the Second Chair w/ Lonn Litchfield, Vol 30, No.3 Utah Bar Journal. Top Attorneys of North America - 2017 CITIZENSHIP, An Introduction to Social Ethics, Re-Examined, Epiphany Publishing (2014) ISBN 978-0984952854 CORRUPTION, Fraud, Embezzlement, and Other Bad Acts and the Auditors that Found Them, Epiphany Publishing (2014) ISBN 978-0984952847 WE WERE ADOPTED, Triumph of the Human Spirit from the lives of Celebrated People who were Adopted, Epiphany Publishing (2014) ISBN 978-1-942639-00-8 A Tale of Two Dead Clients, Utah State Trooper Vol. 20 No. 2. The Condescension of God, Epiphany Publishing (2013) ISBN 978-0-9849528-3-0 Jesus Was Adopted, Epiphany Publishing (2012) ISBN 978-0-9849528-0-9 Stop the Madness, November/December 2005. Family Voice Magazine. Nine Bananas and 18 Monkeys...Oh My! September/October 2005, Family Voice Magazine. Memorializing a Nation—and Why We Celebrate, July/August 2005, Family Voice Magazine. The Teenagers Top Secret Guide to Getting a Great Job, May/June, 2005, Family Voice Magazine. Your Child with Special Needs, Safeguarding Dignity and Quality of Life. November/December 2004, Family Voice Magazine. A $5 - A - Day Habit, January/February 2005, Family voice Magazine. The Cats and Dogs of Buying a Home, March/April 2005, Family Voice Magazine. Managing Your Lawyer, Professional Surveyor magazine, Fall 2002.. Working with a Lawyer, Inside Self Storage magazine, January 2002. The Attorney/Client Relationship, Heating, Plumbing and Air Conditioning magazine January 2002. Secrets of Managing Your Lawyer, Horse Professional magazine, November 2001. Get Your New Employees Trained Without Breaking the Bank, Southern Graphics magazine, June 2001. Training? We Don't Need No Stinking Training, Inside Self Storage magazine, May 2001. Beyond Sink-or-Swim Training: Integrating New Staff, Executive Update magazine, April 2001. How to Hire the Best Person for the Job, National Cattlemen magazine, January 1994. Alternate Dispute Resolution, Podiatry Management magazine, January 1994. Managing Your Lawyer, Journal of Property Management magazine, January 1994. Attorney Shopping Guide, Your Church magazine, January 1994 The Living Trust, National Cattlemen magazine, January 1993 Where There's a Will, Should There be a Trust? Dental Economics magazine, February 1993 Save Time, Money and Aggravation with Alternate Dispute Resolution, Business Radio Magazine, May 1993 The Best Person for the Job, Tack 'n Togs magazine, August 1993 Miracle at West High, This People magazine, December 1990 Take the Fast Boat to China, Tack 'n Togs magazine, January 1993 What You Need to Know About the ADA, Business Radio Magazine, March 1993 ADA, Ready or Not, Here It Is!, Tack 'n Togs, March 1993 Finding, Hiring and Managing a Lawyer, Tack 'n Togs Magazine, May, 1993 Managing Your Attorney to Protect Interests Without Ruining the Bank Account, Dental Office Magazine, April 1993 Handling a Legal Matter, Greenhouse Manager magazine, June 1993 Alternate Dispute Resolution Offers Viable Option to Traditional Litigation, Dental Office Magazine, July 1993 Where There's a Will...Should There be a Trust?, Tack 'n Togs Magazine, October 1993 Legal Counsel: Alternative Dispute Resolution, American Nurseryman Magazine, September 1993 The Best Way to Deal with the Disabilities Act..., Dental Office magazine, September 1993 The Living Trust, The Rangefinder magazine, August 1993 Arbitration: The Fast Track to Negotiations, American Ink Maker magazine, November 1992 The Americans with Disabilities Act, American Ink Maker Magazine, December 1992   == Notes ==

The Curse of Timur or the Curse of Tamerlane (Russian: Проклятие Тамерлана) is the rumor that the tomb of Timur is cursed such that whoever disturbs it will face a calamity. A popular version of the story of the curse holds that when Soviet anthropologists opened the tomb in June 1941, they found an inscription saying that whoever opened it would unleash an invader worse than him. Less than a week after the tomb was opened, Hitler began the invasion of the Soviet Union, leading many people to believe that it was caused by the curse. In addition, the Soviet victory in the Battle of Stalingrad has been credited to the curse being broken by Timur getting an Islamic reburial about one month before the victory in the battle.  Background Timur or Tamerlane was a Turco-Mongol conqueror and warlord who founded the Timurid Empire in and around modern-day Afghanistan, Iran, and Central Asia, becoming the first ruler of the Timurid dynasty. He was buried in Gur-e-Amir, Samarkand, located in present-day Uzbekistan.  Examples of situations attributed to the curse 1740 In 1740 Nader Shah, who was fascinated by Timur, tried to take the sarcophagus, breaking it, and took a jade slab from the tomb. Soon afterwards his son became very ill and after continuing to face calamities he returned the stone per the suggestion of his advisors. His son eventually recovered from the illness.  1941 In June 1941 Soviet anthropologists made an expedition to open the tomb of Gur-i Amir ordered by Stalin to confirm if it was really the tomb of Timur as it was said to be, and to study the remains of Timur. The expedition was led by Russian anthropologist Mikhail Gerasimov and included many members of Central Asian intelligentsia including Toshmuhammad Qori-Niyoziy, Yahyo Gulomov, Khodi Zarifov, Sadriddin Ayni as well as Russian academics such as Aleksandr Semyonov, Mikhail Masson, Lev Oshanin, Valentina Zezenkova, Boris Zasypkin, Vasily Kononov, Valery Shishkin A group of journalists and cameramen joined the expedition to film and document the process, consisting of Mikhail Sheverdin from Pravda, I.P. Savalin as a still photographer, plus Nikolai Kim as the leader of the film brigade, Malik Qayumov as cameraman, with Arif Tursunov, Kazem Mukhamedov, and Pavel Marshalov as assistants. It is agreed by different accounts that before the tomb was opened, three old men approached Sadriddin Ayni, handed him a manuscript said to be very old and claimed that the manuscript said that the tomb could not be opened because of a curse. However, it was not an ancient script, but the Jangnoma book of local legends from the 19th century. The men begged them not to open the tomb, but Ayni shooed them away with a stick and attributed the idea of a curse as a story created after the death of Timur to deter grave robbers, and other members of the crew inspected the manuscript. In 2004, Qayumov later gave an interview with a documentary crew and mentioned the three old men who approached the crew at the teahouse, and Sadriddin Ayni's son Kamal also confirmed the existence of the three men at the teahouse who handed the manuscript purported to contain a curse, but mention that Qayumov was unable to read the script since it was Persian and he was unfamiliar with the language. Much like the story of the Curse of King Tut, a foul smell emitted from the tomb when it was opened, and the crew experienced technical difficulties: the lights went out but came back on and the electrician was unable to determine a cause. Eventually word of the supposed curse reached Stalin who ordered that a special transport aircraft be provided to return Timur to his tomb in Samarkand. In November 1942, Timur was reburied with Islamic rites. Five weeks later, not a few days as often claimed, the Red Army experienced its first major victory by winning the Battle of Stalingrad, turning the tide of the war, which was credited to the lifting of the curse. One version of the story says that the special transport aircraft made a detour to fly over Stalingrad.  Media coverage and disputes in story Different accounts claim that different phrases were carved in the tomb and coffin. It has been said that the jade slab that Nadir Shah tried to take said "When I rise from the dead the world shall tremble" and that the coffin that the Soviet anthropologists opened supposedly had "Whomsoever opens my tomb shall unleash an invader even more terrible than myself" inscribed on the inside. In reality, there is no curse carved on the inside of the coffin or the jade slab tomb, but rather a simple Islamic prayer in the coffin and the jade slab just had a list of ancestors of Timur. The first publication in the Soviet Union of the story of the curse in detail was an article in Zvezda Vostoka in 1990, and it was later the subject of a 2004 documentary directed by Aleksandr Fetisov that aired on the TV channel Rossiya. The documentary did an interview with Malik Qayumov, the cameraman and last surviving member of the crew, Malik Qayumov, who mentioned the three men at the teahouse. Sadriddin Ayni's son Kamal also confirmed the existence of the three men at the teahouse but disputed Qayumov's version of events and insisted that Qayumov could not have understood the conversation since it was in Tajik not Uzbek but did not dispute that the men did not want the tomb opened. Later an article in Pravda credited Qayumov with claiming that there was an inscription in the tomb threatening a war on whoever opened it, and as result many attribute the story of the curse of Timur to Malik Qayumov, however he is not the sole source of the idea of the tomb being cursed.  Footnotes References Bibliography Shaw, Charles (2011). "The Gur-i Amir Mausoleum and the Soviet Politics of Preservation". Future Anterior: Journal of Historic Preservation, History, Theory, and Criticism. 8 (1): 43–63. doi:10.5749/futuante.8.1.0043. ISSN 1549-9715. McChesney, R. D. (2021). Four Central Asian Shrines: A Socio-Political History of Architecture. BRILL. ISBN 978-90-04-45959-5.

Projectnet  is a Finnish database that contains descriptions of both ongoing and completed research projects that are being conducted on natural resources by prominent organizations in Finland. Project registers are usually maintained by individual organizations, but from Projectnet (in Finnish "Hankehaavi") one can search for project information from five different organizations at the same time. The organizations that produce information for Projectnet are Finnish Food  Authority (Ruokavirasto), the Finnish Geospatial Research Institute (FGI), the National Resources Institute Finland (Luke) as well as the Finnish Environment Institute (SYKE). Four faculties of the University of Helsinki are also involved in the Projectnet: Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy as well as the Viikki Campus Library of the Helsinki University Library. Project descriptions in the Projectnet are presented in exactly the form that the information producers have written them. These descriptions are linked directly to the information producer's web page that often contains a more extensive project description. Projectnet doesn’t manipulate the produced project descriptions in any way but its directories are created by the basis of the data fields in these descriptions to help the information seekers to find relevant information. All changes in these projects as well as any new projects that have been initiated are stored in the organization's own register, database or web page and these changes are automatically updated to the Projectnet at agreed upon intervals. The purpose of Projectnet is to improve the discoverability, availability and usability of scientific information within the field of natural resources. Project information is usually found in the publications that come out of different projects. While there are many publication databases in existence, Projectnet is the only extensive, multi-scientific project description database in Finland. As for new scientific projects, Projectnet is the first or even the only available information resource. In particular, researchers, research sponsors, experts, research administration, decision-makers, organizations and communications professionals need information about different research projects. By using Projectnet it is possible to quickly discover what is being researched within the field of natural resources, who the researchers are and in which organizations they are conducting their research. It can be difficult for the information seeker to determine what would be the best place to find out about climate change or bioenergy, since so many organizations are conducting research in these areas from many different perspectives. This is where Projectnet comes to the information seekers' aid. Projectnet contains over 10000 project descriptions (2021). The number of descriptions increases as new projects are being initiated. The aim of Projectnet is to get more data producers who are researching natural resources involved in its network.  Background Projectnet was opened at the end of the year 2010, while the Finnish version Hankehaavi began in January 2008. Projectnet has been produced by the Ministry on Agriculture and Forestry in cooperation with the Viikki Campus Library and the representatives of the research organizations who provide the data. The Projectnet application has been designed and programmed by MI Tietorakenteet Oy (MI Information Structures Ltd).  References External links Press release by Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry 17.9.2008 (in Finnish) Aaltonen, Maj-Lis, Siipilehto, Liisa ja Mattila, Ilkka. Hankehaavi – tutkimushankkeiden hakupalvelu. Maataloustieteen Päivät 2008. Project registers about natural resources in Finland  Research projects (Geological Survey of Finland) Projects (Luke, Natural Resources Institute Finland) Projects (Finnish Environment Institute, SYKE) Scientific projects (Finnish Food Authority) Research projects (Finnish Geospatial Research Institute, FGI)

Nellie Pratt Russell (May 4, 1890 - December 13, 1979) was an incorporator of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated, the first sorority founded by African-American college women. The sorority has continued to generate social capital for over 110 years. Earning undergraduate and graduate degrees at Howard University and Columbia University, Nellie Russell worked as an educator for more than 50 years, mostly teaching English at St. Paul's College, an historically black college in Lawrenceville, Virginia. There she inspired generations of students and teachers. Russell was featured in the 1927 volume of Who's Who in Colored America.  St. Paul's College named a building after Nellie Russell and her husband Dr. J. Alvin Russell, in honor of their contributions, and endowed a scholarship in their name.  Early life Nellie Pratt was born in Macon, Georgia on May 4, 1890. In 1907, she entered Howard University's College of Arts and Sciences. It was the top historically black college in the nation, and she attended at a time when only .33% of African Americans and 5% of whites of eligible age attended any college.  Howard University and Alpha Kappa Alpha Nellie Pratt graduated in 1911 from Howard with a Bachelor of Arts degree in English. Pratt was initiated into Alpha Kappa Alpha during her sophomore year. During college, Pratt started a lifetime of service by volunteering to distribute clothes and food to the poor.  Incorporation of Alpha Kappa Alpha Pratt, Nellie Quander, Julia Evangeline Brooks, Norma Boyd, Minnie B. Smith and Ethel Jones Mowbray worked together to incorporate Alpha Kappa Alpha on January 29, 1913, in order to provide for its future expansion to other colleges.  Career and later life After graduation, Russell taught history and English for two years at Topeka Normal and Industrial School in Topeka, Kansas. To be closer to her mother after her father's death, Nellie Pratt moved to Lawrenceville, Virginia to teach at St. Paul Normal and Industrial School (now St. Paul's College). It was a historically black college. There, in 1913, Nellie Pratt married Dr. J. Alvin Russell. The elder son of the school's founder, Russell served as principal of St. Paul Normal and Industrial School starting in 1926, and as president for several years starting in 1936. During their marriage, Nellie Russell had four sons and one daughter. Nellie Russell also did graduate work during the summers, earning a Master of Arts degree from Columbia University in New York. She devoted great energy to her career as an educator, teaching English at St. Paul's College for nearly 50 years. She influenced generations of students, and helped create teachers as excellent as she was. Russell served as a faculty advisor to the Alpha Upsilon chapter of ΑΚΑ at St. Paul's College.   In 1949, Nellie Russell expanded Alpha Kappa Alpha by helping found the Gamma Lambda Omega graduate chapter. Russell created a chapter educational loan to provide for undergraduate students. Through the years, she served as the chapter's president, secretary, historian, and correspondence secretary. Nellie Russell's daughter and three daughters-in-law all became members of Alpha Kappa Alpha in their turn. Her son James Russell served for 10 years with distinction as President of St. Paul's College. Nellie Pratt Russell died on December 13, 1979.  Honors The 1927 Who's Who in Colored America included the biography of Nellie Pratt Russell in its  collection of people who contributed to the science, culture and overall development of U.S. society. St. Paul's College named a building after Dr. J. Alvin and Nellie Russell, in honor of their long, joint contributions to the college. The college also established a scholarship in their name. Russell was named "Mother of the Year" and outstanding chapter member by a local chapter of the fraternity Omega Psi Phi. Russell was honored with a state historical marker in 2017; it was erected by the Virginia Department of Historic Resources near the Brunswick County Museum and Historical Society in Lawrenceville.  References External links Nellie Pratt Russell, Alpha Kappa Alpha at the Wayback Machine (archived January 1, 2008)

Konrāds Ubāns (December 31, 1893 – August 30, 1981) was a Latvian painter from Riga. He studied at the Riga Art School and was one of the founding members of the Riga Artists' Group before becoming a professor at the Art Academy of Latvia.  Biography Konrāds Ubāns was born on December 31, 1893, in Riga. His father was a railway worker. From 1902 until 1910, he studied in a commercial school. Later he studied in the Odessa art school for a half year. In 1911, he started studies in Riga Art school where he studied until 1914, when World War I started. Ubāns together with his family went to Russia, where for a short while he studied in Penza Art School. In 1916, he was drafted into the Imperial Russian Army and served until 1918, when he was demobilized and returned to Latvia. Ubāns was part of the "Green Flower" association of avant-garde artists, notably with Aleksandrs Drēviņš (lv), Valdemārs Tone (lv) and Kārlis Johansons (lv). In 1920, his first solo exhibition was held in Riga. In the same year, he started his work in Latvian National Museum of Art as an assistant of museum director Burkarts Dzenis. In 1922, he took a study trip to Germany and France. The next year, his second solo exhibition was held. In 1925, he was addressed by Vilhelms Purvītis and took a job in Art Academy of Latvia as a teacher of painting. In 1946, he was promoted to professor and worked in this post for the rest of his life. In 1959, he was declared as People's Artist of Latvian SSR. In 1980, his last exhibition was held in Riga. Konrāds Ubāns died on August 30, 1981, in Riga. He is buried in the Forest Cemetery.  Art Konrāds Ubāns is noted mostly for his landscape paintings and the poetic and intimate atmosphere within them. They are rich, harmonious works celebrating the wonder of nature. He mostly painted landscapes of Riga outskirts in Pārdaugava and Daugava river valley especially around Koknese. However, he also has painted many portraits and still lifes. Also, he has worked in graphic art and sculpture. Real maturity in his work can be seen as early as his paintings from the 1920s, when he richly uses motifs and atmosphere of impressionism.   == References ==

Orgyen Kusum Lingpa (1934-2009) was a Tibetan terton and Nyingma lineage holder within Tibetan Buddhism. His name means "Holder of the Sanctuary of the Trikaya of Oddiyana Padmasambhava."  History Kusum Lingpa was born in 1934 in the Golog region of Amdo province in eastern Tibet as the son of the well-known yogi Lhundrup Gyamtso of the Waxi (Wal Shul) clan.  At that time he was known as Pema Tumpo, or Pema Tum Drag Dorje.  His father's brother, Waxi Lama Sonam Khedrup, was also a famous Buddhist teacher in the region.  Mingyur Namkhé Dorje, 4th Dzogchen Rinpoche, prophesied about Orgyen Kusum Lingpa:  An emanation of Vajrapani will appear in the year known as "guarding wealth" in the Achag Dri region [of Golog] as a child named Tum Drag... He will blossom like a lily, and then unleash himself like a thunderstorm... He will guide all those connected with him to Sikhavati, The Realm of Bliss. Orgyen Kusum Lingpa's previous incarnations include the Mahasiddha Drilbupa in India and Lhalung Pelgyi Dorje, the heart disciple of Guru Rinpoche Padma Sambhava in Tibet, who assassinated the anti-Buddhist Bon Emperor Langdarma in 842 CE and then hid in the Moon Cave of the Drag Yerpa retreat outside Lhasa.  Orgyen Kusum Lingpa also often claimed to recall his previous life as the crazy wisdom master Drugpa Kunleg, and enjoyed recounting the latter's exploits given any occasion. As a youth, he studied primarily at Darthang Monastery in Golog, where his teachers included Payul Chogtrul Rinpoche Jampal Jaypa'i Dorje (Chokyi Dawa), Akong Khenchen Lobsang Dorje, and Gyedro Wonpo Rinpoche.  There he received instructions and empowerments alongside Drubwang Penor Rinpoche, among others.  Another of his principal teachers was the 4th Dodrupchen Rinpoche Tubpa Zangpo, from whom he received the complete transmissions of the Longchen Nyingthig lineage, of which he became a holder. Orgyen Kusum Lingpa began to discover mind treasures of teachings of Guru Rinpoche after his mother died and he went on pilgrimage to central Tibet when he was 16 years old.  On his journey he first passed through Derge and reached Kojo, where he met Ratri Terton Nyagla Changchub Dorje, then reputedly aged 113, who became his principal teacher of Dzog Chen nature of mind instructions.   Proceeding to Lhasa and remaining there throughout most of the 1950s, Orgyen Kusum Lingpa met and received empowerments and instructions from great holders of all of the major dharma lineages of Tibet, including the 16th Karmapa Rigpa'i Dorje, Sera Khenchen Jamyang Choklay Namgyal, the 14th Dalai Lama, Sakya Ngagchang Rinpoche, Dudjom Rinpoche, Jamyang Khyentse Chokyi Lodro, Dilgo Khyentse, Taklung Ma Rinpoche, and many others; which instructions he then put into practice.   With the loss of Tibetan autonomy and during the period of the Cultural Revolution, he was subsequently imprisoned on and off over the course of more than 20 years of his adult life.   Eventually he was permitted to re-establish an encampment, and then a monastery, in the Ga De cantonment of Golog, along a bend of a tributary of the Ma Chu (Yellow River).  The monastery originally was founded by the 19th century Master Do Khyentse Yeshe Dorje, and then passed down through a succession of holders within the Waxi family lineage.  This monastery is known as Lung Ngon Thubten Chokhorling, or "Blue Valley Sanctuary of the Dharma Wheel of the Muni's Teachings."   When he was still young Orgyen Kusum Lingpa fathered a son named Nyima Gyal, who has become a well-known ritual master in Golog and presently resides at Sang Lung Monastery.  With his lifelong consort Dug Kar Drolma, the sister of Garwang Nyima Rinpoche (the current head of Darthang Monastery), he later had two sons and two daughters. He died on Feb 26th, 2009 at his monastery in Guoluo Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture. The XIVth Dalai Lama composed this short prayer for the swift rebirth of Orgyen Kusum Lingpa shortly thereafter in 2009:  Supreme Muni, our Supreme Leader, Lord of Oddiyana and your children, the Arya assembly—all you sources of refuge, please approach, bear witness to this aspiration prayer, give heedto our yearning and lamentation, and grant your great blessings! May there swiftly appear a reincarnation of our kind Guru who was so skilled at guiding transient beings to the jewel Island of the Three Kayas of enlightenment, by freely revealing the profound meaning of the Mind Treasures of the Victor Orgyen. Highly dignified and very Fierce, Wrathful potentates who abide within the most secret command and samaya of Padma, Varja dharma guardians, bring about the purpose of this aspiration through the inveterate support of your enlightened activity!"  (Translated from Tibetan)  Teachings and students During the latter period of his life, Orgyen Kusum Lingpa was invited to visit and teach in many different countries.  He was first invited to the United States by Chagdud Tulku of Chagdud Gonpa Foundation and by Gyaltrul Rinpoche in 1994.  During his first several extended visits to the U.S. in 1994 and 1995, he met and gave Buddhist teachings to a number of celebrities and scholars, including the film director Oliver Stone, and actor Steven Seagal, and was welcomed at Tibetan Buddhist centers across the country.  His early translators were Erik Drew and Richard Barron (Chokyi Nyima).  Several of the attendant Lamas who accompanied him from Golog eventually settled in the U.S., including Lama Chonam and Lama Lhanang in California.  His two youngest sons, Tulku Hungkar Dorje and Tulku Dorje Trengpo, also often accompanied him on those early visits. Beginning in 1995, to fulfill a prophecy he received from the deity Vajrapani to establish 108 practice centers of Vajra Kilaya in order to avert coming calamities and wars in the world, Orgyen Kusum Lingpa established the dharma center Orgyen Khachod Ling in Los Angeles. Orgyen Kusum Lingpa also maintained a close connection with the Tibetan Lama Chodrak Gyatso Nubpa of the Thondup Ling dharma center in the Los Angeles area, entrusting him with the treasure cycle of the deity Orgyen Jambhala and recognizing his son Rigdzin as a rebirth of a past master named Gyarong Tergod, sending him to train at Dodrupchen's monastery in Sikkim, India. While most of Kusum Lingpa's original and early American disciples had previously studied with other Tibetan Buddhist Lamas, gradually he began to gather a great number of  Vietnamese American disciples for whom Tibetan Buddhism was relatively new.  He also traveled to Vietnam several times.   His teachings received directly from guru Rinpoche Padmasambhava comprises mainly a cycle known as the Pema Nyingthig, "The Heart Essence of Padma."  These and his other teachings have been partially published in the Tibetan language in a collection of 18 volumes, with several volumes still to be added. [1].  Orgyen Kusum Lingpa consistently referred to himself as one of the 1000 or more 'servant treasure revealers' who follow the 108 great treasure revealers, the last of whom was Orgyen Chokgyur Lingpa in the 19th century.    The principal Guru sadhana cycles he discovered were of Guru Rinpoche in the form of Vidyadhara Acarya Padma with a mandala of the eight great vidyadharas of the Ka Gye lineages of India and Tibet; and the Rigden King, Wrathful Holder of the Iron Wheel.  His many Yidam sadhana cycles feature Hayagriva, Tara, Vajrapani, Yamantaka and Jambhala.  His Dakini cycles include extensive sadhanas of Yeshe Tsogyal and Mandarava.  His primary treasure of the Compassionate One (Tug Je Chenpo) Avalokitesvara is in the form of Don Yod Shakpa (Amoghapasa).   The treasures also include collected prophecies, medical treatises, and songs of realization.  The principle scribes of his dictated mind treasures included his sons Tulku Hungkar Dorje and Tulku Dorje Trengpo, and his long-time attendant and disciple, the Umdze (chantmaster) Chozang.  Successor  Orgyen Kusum Lingpa's son Tulku Hungkar Dorje is his recognized successor.  Hungkar Dorje was born in 1969 and recognized early in his life by such Buddhist masters as Orgyen Kusum Lingpa, Dodrupchen Rinpoche, Penor Rinpoche, and later by the Dalai Lama, as a reincarnation of Do Khyentse Yeshe Dorje, the mind emanation of the great Nyingma Dzogchen Master Jigme Lingpa.  He completed his early education in Buddhist Philosophy with his father Orgyen Kusum Lingpa, Dodrupchen, Penor Rinpoche, and Akong Khenpo. From 1990-94 he studied towards a Geshe degree at Drepung Monastery in India. Since 1994, he has served as the official abbot of Lung Ngon Thubten Chokhorling Monastery in the Gande region of Golok Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Qinghai Province, China. As president of the Mayul (Qinghai) Gesar Foundation for Virtuous Activity, a charity run by Tibetans in Golog, he has helped design and overseen construction of the Great Stupa for World Peace, one of the largest stupas in the world. He founded the Dharma Institute, a nine-year advanced Buddhist training program for lay people. In 2005, he founded the first Buddhist nunnery in Golok.  He has also recently established a vocational school for Tibetans.   == Footnotes ==

"My Eyes Adored You" is a 1974 song written by Bob Crewe and Kenny Nolan. It was originally recorded by The Four Seasons in early 1974. After the Motown label balked at the idea of releasing it, the recording was sold to lead singer Frankie Valli for $4000. After rejections by Capitol and Atlantic Records, Valli succeeded in getting the recording released on Private Stock Records, but the owner/founder of the label, Larry Uttal, wanted only Valli's name on the label. It is from the album Closeup. The single was released in the US in November 1974 and topped the Billboard Hot 100 in March 1975. "My Eyes Adored You" also went to number 2 on the Easy Listening chart. Billboard ranked it as the No. 5 song for 1975. The single was Valli's first number 1 hit as a solo artist on the Billboard Hot 100, and remained there for one week, being knocked out of the top spot by another Crewe/Nolan-penned song, "Lady Marmalade" by Labelle. Cash Box called it "a mellow ballad sung only the way Frankie's sweet vocal could sing it," saying "lush instrumentation heightens the record's overall effect which is one of a fine musical outing."  Record World said that "Charlie Calello charts bring Valli back up top 40 mountain." Seasons guitarist Demetri Callas, who had replaced founding member Tommy DeVito in the early 1970s, considered it his favorite record of his work with the Seasons. The success of "My Eyes Adored You" triggered a revival of interest in recordings by The Four Seasons. The band was subsequently signed to Warner Bros. Records as Valli's follow-up single "Swearin' to God" was climbing to number 6 on the Hot 100.  Charts Personnel Frankie Valli – lead vocals Joe Long – vocals, bass guitar Demetri Callas – vocals, lead guitar Gerry Polci – vocals, drums Lee Shapiro – vocals, keyboards Charlie Calello – orchestral arrangements  Other versions Andy Williams included it on his 1975 on his album, The Other Side of Me. The song was recorded in 1976 by Fred Astaire with the Pete Moore Orchestra for the album Attitude Dancing  (United Artists Records UA-LA580-G). Marty Mitchell's 1976 version reached number 87 on the country chart.  References External links Frankie Valli - My Eyes Adored You on YouTube

Finding Dawn is a 2006 documentary film by Métis filmmaker Christine Welsh looking into the fate of an estimated 500 Canadian Aboriginal women who have been murdered or have gone missing over the past 30 years.  Subject The film begins with the story of Dawn Crey: one of 60 women, a third of them Aboriginal, who have disappeared from Vancouver's Downtown Eastside over a 20-year period. Crey's remains were among those found on the property of British Columbia serial killer Robert Pickton. However, not enough of Dawn's DNA was found to list her as one of the murder victims at the trial. The film introduces viewers to Dawn's sister and brother, and their involvement in the annual Women's Memorial March in Vancouver. The film then focuses on BC's Highway 16, known as the Highway of Tears, which runs between Prince Rupert, British Columbia and Prince George, British Columbia, looking at the fate of Ramona Wilson. Wilson was one of nine women – all but one of them Native – who have gone missing or been murdered on that stretch of road since the 1990s. Welsh also filmed in Saskatoon, where a woman named Daleen Kay Bosse disappeared in 2004. She went missing in May but a criminal investigation didn't begin until the following January. In the film, Daleen's parents and friends talk about their difficulty in getting Saskatoon police to take Daleen's disappearance seriously. Native rights activists Janice Acoose and Fay Blaney are interviewed in the film. Christine Welsh has produced, written and directed films for more than 30 years. She is an associate professor at the University of Victoria, where she teaches courses in indigenous women's studies and indigenous cinema.  Impact Finding Dawn is referenced in the later 2015 documentary Highway of Tears, which notes its impact on native viewers.  See also Wendy Poole Park  References External links Watch Finding Dawn at NFB.ca Women Make Movies Archived 2013-05-21 at the Wayback Machine Finding Dawn at IMDb

The Chocolate Watchband is an American garage rock band that formed in 1965 in Los Altos, California. The band went through several lineup changes during its existence. Combining psychedelic and garage rock components, their sound was marked by David Aguilar's lead vocals, songwriting,  as well as proto-punk musical arrangements. The band's rebellious musical posture made them one of the harder-edged groups of the period with many critics labeling them as America's answer to the Rolling Stones. The Chocolate Watchband was signed to Tower Records in 1966 and released their first single, "Sweet Young Thing", in 1967. Later in the year, the band released their debut album, No Way Out. Although the album did not chart nationally, the band had a huge following in San Jose and the San Francisco Bay Area. In 1968, their second album, The Inner Mystique, was released and included the band's most popular song, a cover version of "I'm Not Like Everybody Else". By 1969, with Mark Loomis dropping out in the middle of the recording sessions, the band released a final album, One Step Beyond, however it did not include David Aguilar on vocals and was not as highly regarded or indicative of their past work.  The Chocolate Watchband officially broke up in 1970 with no intent of ever reuniting again;  however, they reunited in 1999.  History 1965: Early line-up The Chocolate Watchband was formed in the summer of 1965 in Los Altos, California by Ned Torney and Mark Loomis, who had previously played guitar together in a local band known as The Chaparrals in the previous year. The two were joined by Rick Young (bass guitar), Pete Curry (drums), Jo Kemling (organ), and Danny Phay (lead vocals) to form the first version of the Chocolate Watchband, a name that was originally meant to be taken as a joke. All five musicians had a background rooted in rock and roll and blues, with each one having spent time on the local club circuit. The band garnered a local following, integrating cover versions of British Invasion groups, particularly The Who, into their live repertoire. Curry was soon replaced by Gary Andrijasevich, a jazz drummer from Cupertino High School. They never recorded any commercial releases, but rare demos by the group appeared in the 1990s. The band was gaining popularity until Torney and Phay accepted an offer from a rival band, The Otherside, to join their group. Kemling followed soon after, effectively dismantling the first incarnation of the band.  1966–67: Loomis–Aguilar line-up With the first version of the Chocolate Watchband disbanded, Mark Loomis moved on to join The Shandels. Quickly becoming disillusioned, he took the discarded name "Chocolate Watchband" and recruited The Shandels' bass player Bill 'Flo' Flores and former Watchband drummer, Gary Andrijasevich. Next he convinced former Topsiders guitarist Dave "Sean" Tolby to enlist. The group recruited David Aguilar as the frontman and lead singer; at the time, Aguilar was a college student studying biology at San Jose State University. Loomis naturally asserted the role of leader during this initial time period, although the band never acknowledged it had a designated leader. Songs to cover were presented, shows were talked about, the band voted together on all decisions. Sean Tolby obtained the latest in Vox equipment while Loomis provided the space for nightly rehearsals. Within a week, the band began performing at local clubs in San Francisco's South Bay, playing a range of songs that included obscure British import tunes that hadn't been released in the USA, so that unlike other local bands who were covering the latest hits from the Top 10, the Chocolate Watchband played songs few people had heard before. Thus, in many instances, these songs became associated with the Chocolate Watchband and not the original artists. Six months later, after opening for the Mothers of Invention at the Fillmore Auditorium, San Francisco music producer Bill Graham urged the Chocolate Watchband to sign a management contract with him. He was opening up a new Fillmore East in New York City and wanted to shuttle the Chocolate Watchband, the Grateful Dead, and Jefferson Airplane back and forth from coast to coast as his personal house bands. However, having signed a management contract with local promoter Ron Roupe a week earlier, their future followed a different path.  Roupe, having secured a recording deal with Green Grass Productions in Los Angeles,  introduced the band to producers Ed Cobb and Ray Harris. The band flew to Los Angeles and entered the recording studio; as a warm-up to show Cobb their capabilities, they quickly recorded tracks for "Come On," a Chuck Berry song that had also been the first single recorded by the Rolling Stones, to whom the band was frequently compared. Cobb introduced the band to a song he had written a week earlier named "Sweet Young Thing". Released in December 1966 by Tower Records, the B-side featured the group's cover of Bob Dylan's "It's All Over Now, Baby Blue", another song the band regularly played live. However, unknown to the Watchband, Tower Records farmed the distribution of their recordings out to Uptown Records, a rhythm and blues label with predominantly black artists. Frontman Aguilar began writing material for the band, including originals like "Right By My Side", "Gone & Passes By", "Don't Need Your Lovin' Anymore", "No Way Out" and "Sitting There Standing." The band's second single was the more restrained track "Misty Lane", released with a sweet orchestrated ballad, "She Weaves a Tender Trap", as its B-side. During this period the band were featured in two Sam Katzman films: Riot on Sunset Strip and The Love-Ins. The latter film inspired the group's next single; "Are You Gonna Be There At The Love-In", which was written and recorded in one day. The single was released with the B-side "No Way Out", an instrumental spawned from a studio warm-up with spontaneous Aguilar vocals that Cobb later took credit for. In late 1967, shortly after the release of their first album, No Way Out (1967) Aguilar left for university studies in science while the other members searched for ways to continue playing music.  1967–69: Reformation and dissolution Loomis and Andrijasevich would depart after Aguilar, leaving Tolby and Flores with the duty of fulfilling a month's worth of bookings. They decided to enlist the services of Tim Abbott, Mark Whittaker and Chris Flinders, members of the San Francisco Bay Blues Band. The band still maintained a level of success, but the sound and style differed from the original band. They managed to secure a place as the opening act for The Doors, and also performed at the KFRC Magic Mountain Festival—the first rock music festival in the United States—among thirty other bands in June 1967. The group played several dates, including the Oakland Coliseum until late 1967, when Abbott and Flinders had a disagreement with Tolby and manager Ron Roupe over financial matters, which ensured the indefinite break-up of the Watchband in December 1967. During recording sessions for the Chocolate Watchband's second album, The Inner Mystique, the band chafed at Cobb's influence because he presented them as being more instrumentally refined on record than they were live.  Less than half of the featured studio work was by official members of the band; the majority of the record featured session musicians, and a singer named Don Bennett contributed vocals on the track "Let's Talk About Girls."  The album also included a song written by Cobb, "Medication", which was already done by The Standells, who Cobb also managed.   The band reformed in late 1968 for a short period of time, with Danny Phay, the group's original vocalist in its 1965 inception, re-joining the band, as well as guitarist Ned Torney; bassist Bill Flores and guitarist Sean Tolby from the 1967 line-up remained.  A third studio album, One Step Beyond, was recorded with Cobb again using session musicians, and sometimes entire ghost bands, to record portions of it.  It was a commercial failure except for the songs written and sung by David Aguilar that were put in on the album from past recording sessions.  One of the tracks - "Devil's Motorcycle" - featured Moby Grape guitarist Jerry Miller.  1999–present: Revival After their dissolution in 1970, a revival of interest in psychedelic and garage rock in the late 1980s and 1990s brought the group to public attention, and their original vinyl releases became collectors' items, selling among private sellers for over USD$100. Rhino Records issued a best-of release of the band in 1983, while Sundazed and other labels re-issued the original albums on compact discs, including bonus tracks. After leaving the band, its members each embarked on other non-musical pursuits; Aguilar had worked as an astronomy professor after the band's dissolution. Continued interest prompted the band to reunite in 1999, with Dave Aguilar, Tim Abbott (replacing Mark Loomis, who backed out of the reunion), Bill Flores, and Gary Andrijasevich; Michael Reese was added as guitarist in place of Sean Tolby. The group began to touring internationally in 2000, culminating in a show at New York's Cavestomp and a live album, At the Love-In Live! in 2001. They also issued a studio album,Get Away, in between the Cavestomp show and the live album. The group has since performed in Europe and the United States. In 2005, Melts in Your Brain . . . Not on Your Wrist, a two-CD compilation of the Chocolate Watchband's complete Tower and Uptown recordings, was released.  In June 2013, the Chocolate Watchband made it back to a recording studio in their hometown San Jose, to begin a new album. From 2015 to the present (2018), the band's lineup is Tim Abbott on lead guitar and vocals; Gary Andrijasevich on drums; David Aguilar on vocals, keyboards, and harmonica; Alec Palao on bass and backing vocals; and Derek See on guitar and vocals. The resulting album (This Is My Voice) was released in 2019 to critical acclaim; the lead off single 'Secret Rendezvous' was featured as 'Coolest Song In The World' on Little Steven's Underground Garage program in February 2019. The first song recorded was a tribute to Sky Saxon who had recently died. Founding member Mark Loomis died on September 26, 2014, in Hawaii. From David Aguilar:   This is a sad moment for all of us in the band. I never quite understood Mark's withdrawal and leaving, but in later years he expressed deep regret in breaking up the band. However, at that point in time there was no way to revive that magical moment in time. I always marveled at his guitar work and as time passed, my admiration for his musical abilities and unique guitar playing grew like the expanding universe. I can't express how sad I feel knowing all that is now permanently behind us. In my heart all I can say is thank you Mark for making the Watchband happen. And thank you for selecting me as your lead singer. With our fans - your musical notes will always play on.  Discography Singles "Sweet Young Thing" b/w "Baby Blue" (Uptown 740) (1967) "Misty Lane" b/w "She Weaves a Tender Trap" (Uptown 749) (1967) "Are You Gonna Be There (At the Love-In)" b/w "No Way Out" (Tower 373) (1967)  Albums No Way Out (Tower ST 5096) (1967) The Inner Mystique (Tower ST 5106) (1968) One Step Beyond (Tower ST 5153) (1969) (as The Chocolate Watchband) Get Away (Orchard 3716) (2000) At the Love-In Live! (Roir 8272) (2001) Revolutions Reinvented (Twenty Stone Blatt BAMF 41) (2012) This Is My Voice (Dirty Water Records DWC1117) (2019)  Compilations The Best of the Chocolate Watchband (Rhino RNLP-108) (1983) Forty Four (Big Beat WIKA 25) (1984) Melts in Your Brain...Not On Your Wrist! (Big Beat CDWIK2 249) (2005)  Members Danny Phay - lead vocals (1965; 1968–69) David Aguilar - lead vocals, harmonica, keyboards, guitars, synths (1966–67; 1999–present) Bill Flores - bass, backing vocals (1966–69; 1999–2001) Mark Loomis - lead guitar, keyboards (1965–67; 1968–69) Sean Tolby - rhythm guitar (1966–67; 1968–69) Gary Andrijasevich - drums, backing vocals (1965–67; 1968–69; 1999–present) Chris Flinders - lead vocals (1967) Tim Abbott - lead guitar (1967; 1999–present) Mark Whittaker - drums (1967) Ned Torney - guitar (1965; 2003-2004; keyboards 1968-69) Michael Reese - guitar (1999–2001) Alec Palao - bass, backing vocals (2001–present) Derek See - guitar, vocals, keyboards (2015-present) Jo Kemling - keyboards (1965–66) Rich Young - bass (1965) Daryl Hooper - keyboards, guitar (2012-2015)  References Works cited External links Official website The Chocolate Watchband discography at Discogs The Chocolate Watchband at AllMusic Chocolate Watchband @ pHinnWeb

Liat Towers is a shopping mall and mixed-use complex in Orchard Road, Singapore. It has 21 floors with offices, foodservice outlets, retail stores and embassies. It is located close to Orchard MRT station. The building was first constructed in 1965, before it was redeveloped into its current state in 1979.  History Liat Towers first opened in September 1965, one of the first few malls to make its mark on Orchard Road. In 1977, a redevelopment was announced, which was completed in 1979.  First outlet milestones McDonald's It was the location of McDonald's first outlet in Singapore, which opened on 20 October 1979. It was also the first ever McDonald's outlet in a Southeast Asian country.  Starbucks It was also the location of Starbucks' first outlet in Singapore, opening in December 1996. Similarly to McDonald's, it was the first ever Starbucks outlet in a Southeast Asian country. It was also the coffeehouse chain's 2nd ever overseas outlet outside of the United States, a time whereby Starbucks was not yet a household name. Starbucks still exists at Liat Towers, and its outlet was renovated in 2019.  Description The stores in the tower range from 400 to 5,500 square feet (37 to 511 m2) in floor area. Some tenant retailers include Massimo Dutti, Zara, Hermes, and famed luxury watch brand Audemars Piguet. Zara closed down the outlet in June 2022 and was replaced by Castlery which was relocated from Delta House in 2015 - 2018 and Jit Poh Building from 2019 to September 2022. It has a car park, and is in the middle of the prestigious Orchard shopping district of Singapore.  The tower is also close by to other retail and service buildings in the city, such as several hotels, the most prominent example being the Mandarin Orchard Singapore, along with several well-known malls such as Ngee Ann City, Wisma Atria, ION Orchard and Hilton Singapore. Some of the restaurants in Liat Towers include Shake Shack, which occupies the same spot where Singapore's first McDonald's once stood.  Gallery See also Ngee Ann City Wisma Atria ION Orchard Orchard MRT station Hilton Singapore List of shopping malls in Singapore 1979 in Singapore  Notes   == References ==

The Odessa Brigade, or officially the Separate Brigade of Special Purpose "Odessa" or OBrON "Odessa", was a pro-Russian militia in the war in Donbas. It originated as a militant anti-Maidan group which emerged in the Ukrainian city of Odesa in 2014. It emerged within the pro-Russian "Odesskaya Druzhina" movement which was involved in the 2014 Odesa clashes. Following this event, members of "Odesskaya Druzhina" (and others from Odesa and Russia) reorganized themselves into a separatist militia in the Donbas, fighting on behalf of the Luhansk People's Republic in the war in Donbas. The unit was disbanded in January 2015, probably as a result of inter-separatist power struggles.  History Origins in the 2014 Odesa clashes The important port city of Odesa (also spelled "Odessa") in Ukraine was one of the locations where pro-Euromaidan and anti-Maidan groups clashed during the Revolution of Dignity of 2014 and the following period of pro-Russian unrest. Radical pro-Russian demonstrators in Odesa mobilized into a militant movement, referred to as "Odesskaya Druzhina". There were other militant groups besides "Odesskaya Druzhina" such as the similarly named "People's Druzhina of Odessa". The militants generally shared extremist right- or left-wing viewpoints, with "Odesskaya Druzhina" being identified by openDemocracy as being antisemitic. Anton Rayevsky traveled to Ukraine in this context, intending to support pro-Russian forces. Rayevsky, a Russian citizen and ultranationalist, was previously known for being a member of the Russian nationalist and monarchist movement Black Hundreds, and has been described as a Neo-Nazi. He arrived in the city on 19 March, posed as a local resident, and set up base in Odesskaya Druzhina's pro-Russian tent camp in "Kulikovo Field". He joined the group, and trained pro-Russian protestors in "close combat". On VKontakte, he described the group he was training with as "Odessa brigade". Rayevsky and the group subsequently took part in pro-Russian demonstrations in Odesa. At one point, Rayevsky proposed to Odesskaya Druzhina that they should murder the local pro-Ukrainian Right Sector leader. According to Rayevsky, the leadership of "Odesskaya Druzhina" refused to accept this plan. The Ukrainian Security Service eventually arrested Rayevsky for trying to incite ethnic unrest and deported him back to Russia. From Saint Petersburg, he called for armed rebellion against the post-revolution Ukrainian government, calling upon Russians to "take up weapons" and "shed blood". Rayevsky would later fight in the war in Donbas before attempting to become a politician in Russia in 2021, which failed.  Despite Rayevsky's removal, the violence in Odesa continued to escalate. Another Russian citizen, Alexei "Foma" Fominov, had also risen to prominence in the local anti-Maidan movement. Fominov positioned himself as a Russian nationalist and later blamed Ukraine for the war in Donbas. He later claimed that he had served as "commandant of Kulikovo Field", referencing the tent camp outside the city where pro-Russian forces gathered. On 2 May, riots in Odesa resulted in the deadly Trade Unions House fire; many Russian nationalists such as Fominov subsequently left the city.  Activities in the Donbas A number of these pro-Russian nationalists from Odesa ultimately relocated to Luhansk where Fominov reorganized them into a proper militia. The unit became known for including a large number of volunteers from Russia. Many of these had previously belonged to the "Yakut" militia. Under Fominov, the Odessa Brigade fought at Peremozhnoye, Luhansk International Airport, Izvaryne, Lutuhyne, Dolzhanske, Lysychansk, Georgievka, and Pervozvanivka. The group was involved in the kidnapping and murder of civilians in Peremozhne and Luhansk. These civilians were either known for pro-Ukrainian views or relatively wealthy. Ukrainian officials also claimed that the group was responsible for a number of bombings in Odesa from 2014 to 2015.  Though the unit fought for the separatist Luhansk People's Republic, it did not fully integrate itself into the Luhansk People's Republic Armed Forces. In January 2015, the Odessa Brigade was dissolved by the LPR. Troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the LPR surrounded the militia's base, disarmed its fighters, and requested that the militants instead sign up for other units in the LPR Armed Forces. Though a large number of native Odessa Brigade members accepted this offer, most of the foreign volunteers refused and opted to return to Russia. Fominov was arrested on charges of criminal activity by LPR officials, though Ukrainian officials believed that his imprisonment and the Odesa Brigade's dissolution were more likely the result of power struggles within the LPR.  Later developments During the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, another pro-Russian "Odessa Brigade" was founded in the context of the Southern Ukraine campaign by regional collaborator Ihor Markov.  Leadership and ideology Anton Rayevsky, trainer of the anti-Maidan group called the "Odessa brigade", is a Russian ultranationalist and Neo-Nazi. He called for the annexation of Ukrainian territory by Russia. He has numerous Nazi-themed tattoos on his body, and an acquaintance of his reported that in school, Rayevsky would "calmly sit in the back row and read Mein Kampf". After leaving Odesa, Rayevsky joined other separatist groups before attempting to become a politician in Russia.  The commander of the original armed militia, Alexei "Foma" Fominov, generally posed as Russian nationalist and blamed Ukraine for the warfare in the region. Ukrainian media and officials believed that he had played a major role in escalating the 2014 Odesa clashes as well as in convincing Rodion Miroshyn, deputy of the Luhansk Regional Council, to defect to the separatists. After the 2015 dissolution of the Odessa Brigade, the Luhansk People's Republic prosecutor's office charged him with "murder, robbery and kidnapping of civilians".  References Works cited Mareš, Miroslav; Laryš, Martin; Holzer, Jan (2018). Militant Right-Wing Extremism in Putin's Russia: Legacies, Forms and Threats. Abingdon-on-Thames: Routledge. ISBN 978-1032094472.

The district of Rastenburg was a district in East Prussia which existed from 1818 to 1945. Its capital was the town of Rastenburg. Already from 1752 to 1818, there was a Rastenburg district in East Prussia, which, however, encompassed a much larger area.  History Kingdom of Prussia A comprehensive district reform was carried out in all of East Prussia, as the districts established in 1752 had proven to be inexpedient and too large. The Rastenburg district was reduced in size on February 1, 1818 and became part of Regierungsbezirk Königsberg in the Prussian province of East Prussia. It initially included the parishes of Bartenstein, Bäslack, Falkenau, Gallingen, Groß Schwansfeld, Gudnick, Lamgarben, Langheim, Leunenburg, Paaris, Rastenburg, Schönfließ-Tolksdorf, Schwarzstein and Wenden. On April 1, 1819, the district boundaries were changed again. The parishes of Barten, Drengfurth and Groß Wolfsdorf were transferred from the Gerdauen district to the Rastenburg district and the Bartenstein, Falkenau, Gallingen and Groß Schwansfeld parishes were transferred from the Rastenburg district to the Friedland district.  Germany From 1871, the district belonged to the German Reich. In September 1940, not far from Rastenburg, in the Görlitzer Forest near the small town of Görlitz, the Wolf's Lair headquarters was set up under the highest degree of secrecy during the preparations for the war in the east. The Army High Command was located about 13 km to the northeast in Mauerwald on the Mauersee. Towards the end of World War II, the district was occupied by the Red Army in January 1945. In the summer of 1945, the Rastenburg district was placed under Polish administration by the Soviets in accordance with the Potsdam Agreement, together with the southern half of East Prussia. The German inhabitants of the district were subsequently expelled by the local Polish administrative authorities.  Demographics According to the census of 1831, the district had a population of 31,501, of which 28,715 (91.2%) were Germans and 2,786 (8.8%) were Poles.  Municipalities At the time of its dissolution in 1945, the Rastenburg district contained 3 towns and 76 rural communities:   == References ==

Kraków-Rakowice-Czyżyny Airport is a disused airport  in Kraków, Poland, one of the oldest permanent airfields in Europe, open for occasional traffic by certain types of aircraft.  A portion of it is now the site of the Polish Aviation Museum with a 720-metre long and 60-metre wide segment of the original concrete runway restored for use by the museum for light planes (to 7,500 kg) and helicopters.  History The airfield has its beginnings as a military airport established in the borough of Rakowice in 1912, one of the most modern and largest in Poland at the time. It was built for the needs of the Austro-Hungarian Empire along with an army garrison. In 1917, the airfield became one of the stopovers in the first European air mail service linking Vienna with Kyiv and Odessa. The airport was in continuous use to 1963, until the relocation of the Kraków passenger airport 16 km westwards, to the village of Balice. The expansion of nearby Nowa Huta district of Kraków forced its closure. In June 2004, a portion of the airport contiguous with the Polish Aviation Museum was reopened as a police helicopter base  and for an occasional fixed-wing aircraft traffic on runway 26 for an annual two-day air show held on the last weekend of June. The museum is also likely to use this airfield for flying some of its collection or acquiring new exhibits. Since 2009, the airport has been a location of Live Music Festival.  References History of the airport and the Aviation Museum  External links  Media related to Old Airport Rakowice-Czyżyny in Kraków at Wikimedia Commons

Vicharn Minchainant (Thai: วิชาญ มีนชัยนันท์, born July 24, 1960) is a Thai politician. He is a former Deputy Minister of Ministry of Public Health, a Bangkok Member of Parliament, deputy leader of Pheu Thai Party and leader of Pheu Thai Bangkok MPs.  Background and education Vicharn was born at Min Buri, Bangkok, to Mr. Paitune and Mrs. Supatra Minchainant. He is a nephew of Dr. Suthee Minchaiynunt, a billionaire, landowner, philanthropist, and the Honourable President for Life of Thai-Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Vicharn married Jintana Minchainant (Thai: จินตนา มีนชัยนันท์) and have 4 children. One of Vicharn's brothers, Wirat Minchainant (Thai: วิรัตน์ มีนชัยนันท์), was a three-time Member of the Bangkok Metropolitan Council. Vicharn holds a Master of Arts degree (Political Science in Public Administration) from Thammasat University.  Political career Vicharn began his political career with Democrat Party. At the age of 25, Vicharn became a member and a chairman of Min Buri District Council. He was voted as a member of the Bangkok Metropolitan Council for two times in 1994 and 1998, and served as the 1st Vice-Chairman of the Bangkok Metropolitan Council. Vicharn joined Thai Rak Thai Party in 2000 and became a Bangkok Member of Parliament, representing Min Buri and Khlong Sam Wa Districts. Since then, he has won all national elections in 2001, 2005, 2006 (void), 2007, and 2011. He is one of a very few  Bangkok MPs who has won the elections more than 4 times in a row. In 2008, Vicharn was appointed as the Deputy Minister of Public Health in two cabinets; under Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej and Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat. He served as Acting Minister of Public Health after the Constitutional Court ordered Health Minister Chaiya Sasomsub to quit.  Political position 2011: Bangkok Member of Parliament, Pheu Thai Party (term 4) 2010: Deputy leader of Pheu Thai Party (resigned 2011) 2008: Deputy Minister of Public Health under Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat 2008: Deputy Minister of Public Health under Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej 2007: Bangkok Member of Parliament, People's Power Party (term 3) 2006: Bangkok Member of Parliament, Thai Rak Thai Party (void) 2005: Chairman of the Committee on Consumer Protection 2004: Assistant Secretary to the Minister of Education 2001: Bangkok Member of Parliament, Thai Rak Thai Party (term 2) 2001: Vice Chairman of the Committee on Budget Administration Follow-up of the House of Parliament 2001: Bangkok Member of Parliament, Thai Rak Thai Party (term 1) 1998: 1st Vice-Chairman of the Bangkok Metropolitan Council 1998: Member of the Bangkok Metropolitan Council, Min Buri District (term 2) 1994: Member of the Bangkok Metropolitan Council, Min Buri District (term 1) 1985: Chairman of Min Buri District Council 1985: Member of Min Buri District Council (2 terms)  Royal decorations 2008 –  Knight Grand Cordon (Special Class) of the Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant 2005 –  Knight Grand Cordon (Special Class) of The Most Noble Order of the Crown of Thailand  References External links คณะรัฐมนตรีไทย คณะที่ 57 Samak cabinet: 57th Council of Ministers คณะรัฐมนตรีไทย คณะที่ 58 Somchai cabinet: 58th Council of Ministers

Hana Kuyō–Sanbyaku Rokujū Go Nichi Koi Moyō (花供養・365日恋もよう), literally meaning "Flower Festival - 365 Days of Love", is the seventh studio album by Japanese singer Sayuri Ishikawa.  The album was released on November 25, 1976 by Nippon Columbia. All twelve songs in the album are original songs written for Ishikawa by Yu Aku as lyricist and Takashi Miki (三木たかし) as composer and arranger. Hana Kuyō–Sanbyaku Rokujū Go Nichi Koi Moyō is a concept album.  Each of the twelve songs in the album represents a month of a year.  In addition, most songs depict scenes of a particular place in Japan while some are not specific about its location. Ishikawa’s signature song "Tsugaru Kaikyō Fuyugeshiki" originally appeared as the song representing the month of December in this album.  Prior to the release of this album, Ishikawa sang "Tsugaru Kaikyō Fuyugeshiki" on stage at her recital in Osaka. This first presentation of the song received critical acclaim, which led to the song’s subsequent release as a single in the following year. The album was originally released in 30 cm LP format.  It was reprinted in 12 cm CD format in 1993 by Nippon Columbia.  Track listing Time of each song is from the CD reprint.  The sleeve of the original LP album does not have time of the songs.  Singles "Hana Kuyō" (花供養 Flower Festival), also the main title of the album, was originally released as the fourteenth single by Ishikawa. "Tsugaru Kaikyō Fuyugeshiki" was released as Ishikawa’s fifteenth single following the release of the album.  Personnel The album sleeve does not credit people other than singer Ishikawa and writers Aku and Miki.   == Notes ==

Charlie Is My Darling – Ireland 1965, directed by Peter Whitehead and produced by the Rolling Stones' manager Andrew Loog Oldham, was the first documentary film about the Rolling Stones. It was intended as a screen test for the band, to see how their musical charisma would translate into film. The footage was shot during the band's second tour of Ireland that year, on 3 and 4 September 1965, and was finished in the spring of 1966. It was given its premiere at the Mannheim Film Festival in October 1966. But the film was never officially released, due to the legal fights between the Rolling Stones and Allen Klein and a burglary in Andrew Loog Oldham's office, which saw all prints disappear. Nearly fifty years later, in 2012, a new film using restored footage and entitled Charlie Is My Darling – Ireland 1965 was released by Allen Klein's ABKCO Records, which owns the rights to all older Stones material. Charlie Is My Darling – Ireland 1965 came about when director Michael Gochanour discovered additional unprocessed footage of the 1965 Rolling Stones screen test. Gochanour spent two years editing and remixing the '60s material, adding a story line and synching music to Rolling Stones concert footage that had originally been filmed without sound. The result was Charlie Is My Darling – 1965. One of Gochanour's objectives in making the film was "to show The Rolling Stones in a way the world had never seen them before; as a band just coming into their own – raw, visceral, innocent and with purpose." The 64-minute documentary, Charlie Is My Darling – Ireland 1965, follows the group from their car trip out of London to Heathrow Airport, and from there to Dublin where they had two concerts at the Adelphi Theatre on 3 September. The next day they take a train up to Belfast for two concerts at the ABC Theatre, before returning to London by plane the following day. Besides stage shots from the concerts (where the second Dublin concert ends in total chaos as fans storm the stage), the film contains scenes from a hotel room in Dublin (where Keith and Mick for fun do a few Beatles songs as well as a couple of their own), scenes from their train trip to Belfast, another impromptu song session by a piano (with both Keith and Andrew Oldham playing the piano while Mick impersonates Elvis Presley singing "Santa Bring My Baby Back (To Me)" and Fats Domino's version of "Blueberry Hill"), and finally their flight back to London. Intermixed with this are interviews with the band members where they talk about fame, fans and future. Charlie Is My Darling – Ireland 1965 premiered at the Walter Reade Theater in New York City on 29 September 2012, as part of the 2012 New York Film Festival, and was released on DVD and Blu-ray in November 2012. On 25 November 2012, it was shown by BBC Two as part of BBC's "The Rolling Stones at 50" celebrations. A Super Deluxe Edition box set of the film versions and audio albums was released 13 November 2012 which contained 2 CDs, 10" vinyl, DVD, Blu-ray and a numbered limited edition enlarged film cell in 200+ unique variations.  Awards Charlie is My Darling – Ireland 1965 won the Grammy Award for Best Historical Album at 2014’s 56th Annual Grammy Awards.  Live 1965: Music from Charlie Is My Darling Live 1965: Music from Charlie Is My Darling, the audio album featuring the songs in the documentary, was released 24 November 2014 on ABKCO Records as a stand-alone release as a digital download and streaming audio.  Track listing Charts References External links Charlie Is My Darling at IMDb  Variety, 26 October 1966: Charlie is My Darling, review. Retrieved 2 December 2012 The Arts Desk, 26 November 2012: The Story of Charlie Is My Darling. Retrieved 2 December 2012 Official website for the new, restored version. Retrieved 2 December 2012 Ultimate Classic Rock, November 2012: "The Rolling Stones, Charlie is My Darling – Ireland 1965" – DVD review. Retrieved 2 December 2012 Richard Brody, The New Yorker, 3 October 2012: "Charlie is My Darling": The Rolling Stones in 1965. Retrieved 2 December 2012

The Mid Cheshire Ridge, sometimes referred to as the Cheshire Sandstone Ridge, is a range of low sandstone hills which stretch north to south through Cheshire in North West England. The ridge is discontinuous, with the hills forming two main blocks, north and south of the "Beeston Gap". The main mass of those to the south are known as the Peckforton Hills; the larger group of hills to the north do not have a collective name. The Cheshire Sandstone Ridge was shortlisted for AONB designation in 2021.  Significant summits The ridge attains its highest elevation at Raw Head in the Peckforton Hills, some 227 m above sea level. Other significant summits and the parishes within which they lie, are from north to south:  Beacon Hill (150 m), 53.2846°N 2.7222°W﻿ / 53.2846; -2.7222﻿ (Beacon Hill) (Frodsham) Woodhouse Hill (145 m), 53.2763°N 2.7352°W﻿ / 53.2763; -2.7352﻿ (Woodhouse Hill) (Frodsham) Helsby Hill (140 m), 53.2737°N 2.7635°W﻿ / 53.2737; -2.7635﻿ (Helsby Hill) (Helsby) Alvanley Cliff (135 m), 53.2597°N 2.7356°W﻿ / 53.2597; -2.7356﻿ (Alvanley Cliff) (Alvanley) Birch Hill (158 m), 53.2591°N 2.7180°W﻿ / 53.2591; -2.7180﻿ (Birch Hill) (Manley) Old Pale (176 m), 53.2217°N 2.6854°W﻿ / 53.2217; -2.6854﻿ (Old Pale) (Delamere) Eddisbury Hill (158 m), 53.2200°N 2.6720°W﻿ / 53.2200; -2.6720﻿ (Eddisbury Hill) (Delamere) Primrosehill (158 m), 53.2083°N 2.6955°W﻿ / 53.2083; -2.6955﻿ (Primrosehill) (Delamere) High Billinge (175 m), 53.1910°N 2.6679°W﻿ / 53.1910; -2.6679﻿ (High Billinge) (Utkinton) Luddington Hill (145 m), 53.1766°N 2.6522°W﻿ / 53.1766; -2.6522﻿ (Luddington Hill) (Utkinton) (Beeston Gap) Beeston Castle Hill (155 m), 53.1288°N 2.6935°W﻿ / 53.1288; -2.6935﻿ (Beeston Castle Hill) (Beeston) Stanner Nab (200 m), 53.1109°N 2.7016°W﻿ / 53.1109; -2.7016﻿ (Stanner Nab) (Peckforton) Peckforton Point (203 m), 53.0968°N 2.7028°W﻿ / 53.0968; -2.7028﻿ (Peckforton Hill) (Peckforton) Burwardsley Hill (186 m), 53.0952°N 2.7092°W﻿ / 53.0952; -2.7092﻿ (Burwardsley Hill) (Burwardsley) Bulkeley Hill (220 m), 53.0925°N 2.7077°W﻿ / 53.0925; -2.7077﻿ (Bulkeley Hill) (Bulkeley) Raw Head (227 m), 53.0763°N 2.7441°W﻿ / 53.0763; -2.7441﻿ (Bickerton Hill (Raw Head)) (Bickerton and Harthill) Bickerton Hill (south) (193 m), 53.0756°N 2.7459°W﻿ / 53.0756; -2.7459﻿ (Bickerton Hill (south)) (Bickerton) Maiden Castle (210 m), 53.0709°N 2.7512°W﻿ / 53.0709; -2.7512﻿ (Maiden Castle) (Bickerton & Duckington)  Geology The hills are composed of a range of sandstones of Permian and Triassic age. North–south faulting is in part responsible for elevating harder-wearing strata above the general level of the Cheshire Plain. Typically the higher summits are formed from the Helsby Sandstone. The ridge acted as something of a barrier to the passage of Irish Sea ice during the last ice age and its hills are etched with numerous glacial meltwater channels, many of which formed subglacially. Particularly spectacular examples are those at Urchin's Kitchen in Primrosehill Woods and at Holbitch Slack near Cotebrook.  Hill forts A series of Iron Age hillforts adorn the ridge from Woodhouse Hill and Helsby Hill in the north through Eddisbury and Kelsborrow Castle to Maiden Castle in the south.  Recreation The ridge is traversed by the popular Sandstone Trail, a middle-distance recreational route originally established by the former Cheshire County Council between Beacon Hill and Grindley Brook on the Shropshire border but now extended into Frodsham to the north and Whitchurch to the south. Sections of the Delamere Way, Longster Trail and Eddisbury Way also explore parts of the ridge. Numerous of the woods along the ridge have been used for orienteering competitions over the years. Horseriding is also popular in the area, as it is traversed by a number of bridleways, byways and green lanes.  See also  Geology of Alderley Edge   == References ==

Belle K. Maniates (September 1861 – November 13, 1931) was an American novelist and short story writer. At least three silent films were made based on works by Maniates:  Amarilly of Clothes-Line Alley (1918), Mirandy Smiles (1918), and Penny of Top Hill Trail (1921).  Early life Belle Kanaris Maniates was born in Marshall, Michigan, in 1861. Her father Nicholas Kanaris Maniates was a Greek immigrant and a doctor. Her mother was Martha Arabelle Becker Maniates, of New York. Her father died in the same year that Belle Maniates was born. She was sometimes described as the niece or grandniece of Greek politician Konstantinos Kanaris.  Career Maniates, who worked as a secretary and clerk in the Michigan state government in Lansing, wrote "eight novels and hundreds of short stories". Several of her short stories appeared in the Chicago Defender newspaper. Books by Maniates included David Dunne, a Romance of the Middle West (1912), Amarilly of Clothes-Line Alley (1915), Mildew Manse (1916), Amarilly in Love (1917), Little Boy Bear (1917), Our Next Door Neighbors (1917), Penny of Top Hill Trail (1919), and Sand Holler (1920). Three of her stories were adapted as silent films: Amarilly of Clothes-Line Alley (1918) was directed by Marshall Neilan, adapted by Frances Marion and starred Mary Pickford; Mirandy Smiles (1918) was directed by William C. deMille, adapted by Edith M. Kennedy, and starred Vivian Martin; and Penny of Top Hill Trail (1921) was directed by Arthur Berthelet, adapted by Finis Fox and Beatrice Van, and starred Bessie Love. Amarilly of Clothes-Line Alley and Mildew Alley were also adapted for the stage, in 1917 and 1922.  Personal life Maniates died in Lansing in 1931, aged 70 years.  References External links Belle K. Maniates at IMDb  Stories by Maniates Belle K. Maniates, "Angela's Romance", The Pacific Monthly 15(June 1905): 371-376. A short story by Maniates. Belle K. Maniates, "A Vegetarian Adventure" The New England Magazine 35(September 1906): 60-65. A short story by Maniates. Belle K. Maniates, "Polly's Masquerade" Locomotive Engineers Journal 41(June 1907): 457-460. A short story by Maniates. Belle K. Maniates, "An Unsolved Problem" The Black Cat 13(March 1908): 43-52. A short story by Maniates.

The 2020 Sorcerous Stabber Orphen anime television series is based on the light novel series of the same name written by Yoshinobu Akita and illustrated by Yuuya Kusaka. The anime remake is animated by Studio Deen and directed by Takayuki Hamana, with Reiko Yoshida handling series composition, and Takahiko Yoshida designing the characters. Showtaro Morikubo reprised his role as Orphen, while the rest of the characters had new voice actors. The 2020 remake was commemorated to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the anime series. It was initially set to premiere in 2019, but was rescheduled to premiere on January 7 to March 31, 2020 on AT-X, BS Fuji, Tokyo MX, and Wowow. The opening theme is "Calling U" performed by buzz★Vibes, and the ending theme is "Unpredictable Days" (予測不能Days, "Yosoku Funō Deizu") performed by Mai Fuchigami. Funimation has licensed the series for a simuldub. An unaired OVA episode was bundled with the remake's second Blu-ray box set, which released on May 8, 2020. A second season of the 2020 remake was announced with the title of Sorcerous Stabber Orphen: Battle of Kimluck. It aired from January 20 to March 31, 2021. The opening theme is "Light of Justice" performed by Showtaro Morikubo while the ending theme is "Marionette Coup d'État" (操り人形(マリオネット)クーデター, "Marionetto Kū Detā") performed by Mai Fuchigami. A third season was announced on September 26, 2022, titled Sorcerous Stabber Orphen: Chaos in Urbanrama. Kenji Konuta replaced Reiko Yoshida as the scriptwriter. It aired from January 18 to April 5, 2023. The opening theme song is "Hysteric Caravan" by Showtaro Morikubo, while the ending theme song is "Fantastic Partner" (ファンタジック・パートナー, Fantajikku Pātonā) by Mai Fuchigami. A fourth season was announced on January 9, 2023, titled Sorcerous Stabber Orphen: Sanctuary Arc. It aired from April 12 to June 28, 2023. The opening theme is "Motive Rain" by Showtaro Morikubo while the ending theme is "Shūen no Destiny" (Destiny of the End) by Mai Fuchigami.  Series overview Episode list Season 1 (2020) Season 2: Battle of Kimluck (2021) Season 3: Chaos in Urbanrama (2023) Season 4: Doom of Dragon's Sanctuary (2023) See also List of Sorcerous Stabber Orphen (1998 TV series) episodes  Notes   == References ==

No Brakes is the second solo album by British musician John Waite, released in 1984. It features Waite's biggest hit single "Missing You" which hit number 1 on the US Billboard's Album Rock Tracks and the Billboard Hot 100.  No Brakes was certified Gold in September 1984 – three weeks prior to breaking into the Top 10 of Billboard's album chart. The album's second single, "Tears", a cover of a song originally recorded by former Kiss drummer Peter Criss for his 1982 album Let Me Rock You, charted at number 8 on Billboard's Album Rock Tracks chart and number 37 on the  Billboard's Hot 100 chart.  Track listing "Saturday Night" (Gary Myrick, John Waite) – 2:46 "Missing You" (Mark Leonard, Chas Sandford, Waite) – 4:30 "Dark Side of the Sun" (Jean Beauvoir) – 3:57 "Restless Heart" (Waite) – 4:27 "Tears" (Vinnie Cusano, Adam Mitchell) – 3:59 "Euroshima" (Gary Myrick, Waite) – 5:05 "Dreamtime/Shake It Up" (Waite, Ivan Král) – 5:10 "For Your Love" (Waite, Myrick, Donnie Nossov, Curly Smith) – 3:38 "Love Collision" (Waite, Myrick, Nossov, Smith) – 3:51  Personnel John Waite – lead and backing vocals Bruce Brody – keyboards Gary Myrick – guitars Donnie Nossov – bass, backing vocals Curly Smith – drums Steve Scales – percussion Production Produced by John Waite, Gary Gersh and David Thoener Engineered and Mixed by David Thoener Recording assistants – John Agnello, Eddie DeLena, David Egerton and Jim Scott Mix assistant – John Agnello Recorded at Record Plant NYC and Record Plant Los Angeles Mastered by George Marino at Sterling Sound, New York Art direction – Henry Marquez Design – Michael Hodgson Cover photo – David Bailey Inner sleeve photos – Barry Linwell, Jeffrey Scales, Geoffrey Thomas and Mark Weiss Management – Steven Machat and Rick Smith  Charts Weekly charts Year-end charts Certifications   == References ==

Hindu temple architecture as the main form of Hindu architecture has many varieties of style, though the basic nature of the Hindu temple remains the same, with the essential feature an inner sanctum, the garbha griha or womb-chamber, where the primary Murti or the image of a deity is housed in a simple bare cell. For rituals and prayers, this chamber frequently has an open space that can be moved in a clockwise direction. There are frequently additional buildings and structures in the vicinity of this chamber, with the largest ones covering several acres. On the exterior, the garbhagriha is crowned by a tower-like shikhara, also called the vimana in the south.  The shrine building often includes an circumambulatory passage for parikrama, a mandapa congregation hall, and sometimes an antarala antechamber and porch between garbhagriha and mandapa. In addition to other small temples in the compound, there may be additional mandapas or buildings that are either connected or separate from the larger temples. Hindu temple architecture reflects a synthesis of arts, the ideals of dharma, values and the way of life cherished under Hinduism. The temple is a place for Tirtha—pilgrimage. All the cosmic elements that create and celebrate life in Hindu pantheon, are present in a Hindu temple—from fire to water, from images of nature to deities, from the feminine to the masculine, from kama to artha, from the fleeting sounds and incense smells to Purusha—the eternal nothingness yet universality—is part of a Hindu temple architecture. The form and meanings of architectural elements in a Hindu temple are designed to function as the place where it is the link between man and the divine, to help his progress to spiritual knowledge and truth, his liberation it calls moksha. The architectural principles of Hindu temples in India are described in Shilpa Shastras and Vastu Sastras. The Hindu culture has encouraged aesthetic independence to its temple builders, and its architects have sometimes exercised considerable flexibility in creative expression by adopting other perfect geometries and mathematical principles in Mandir construction to express the Hindu way of life.  History Early structures Remains of early elliptical shrines discovered in Besnagar (3rd-2nd century BCE) and Nagari (1st century BCE), may be the earliest known Hindu temple structures, associated to the early Bhagavata tradition, a precursor of Vaishnavism. In Tamil Nadu, the earliest version of the Murugan Temple, Saluvankuppam, north-facing and in brick, appears to date from between the 3rd century BCE and 3rd century CE. In Besnagar, the temple structures have been found in conjonction with the Heliodorus pillar dedicated to Vāsudeva. The archaeologists found an ancient elliptical foundation, extensive floor and plinth produced from burnt bricks. Further, the foundations for all the major components of a Hindu temple – garbhagriha (sanctum), pradakshinapatha (circumambulation passage), antarala (antechamber next to sanctum) and mandapa (gathering hall) – were found. These sections had a thick support base for their walls. These core temple remains cover an area of 30 x 30 m. The sections had post-holes, which likely contained the wooden pillars for the temple superstructure above. In the soil were iron nails that likely held together the wooden pillars. The superstructure of the temple was likely made of wood, mud and other perishable materials. The ancient temple complex discovered in Nagari (Chittorgarh, Rajasthan) – about 500 kilometers to the west of Vidisha, has a sub-surface structure nearly identical to that of the Besnagar temple. The structure is also associated to the cult of Vāsudeva and Saṃkarṣaṇa, and dated to the 1st century BCE.  Classical period (4-6th century) Though there are hardly any remains of stone Hindu temples before the Gupta dynasty in the 5th century CE, there  probably were earlier structures in timber-based architecture. The rock-cut Udayagiri Caves (401 CE) are among the most important early sites, built with royal sponsorship, recorded by inscriptions, and with impressive sculpture. The earliest preserved Hindu temples are simple cell-like stone temples, some rock-cut and others structural, as at Temple 17 at Sanchi. By the 6th or 7th century, these evolved into high shikhara stone superstructures. However, there is inscriptional evidence such as the ancient Gangadhara inscription from about 424 CE, states Meister, that towering temples existed before this time and these were possibly made from more perishable material. These temples have not survived. Examples of early major North Indian temples that have survived after the Udayagiri Caves in Madhya Pradesh include those at Tigawa, Deogarh, Parvati Temple, Nachna (465), Bhitargaon, the largest Gupta brick temple to survive,  Lakshman Brick Temple, Sirpur (600-625 CE); Rajiv Lochan temple, Rajim (7th-century).  Gop Temple in Gujarat (c. 550 or later) is an oddity, with no surviving close comparator. No pre-7th century CE South Indian free-standing stone temples have survived. Examples of early major South Indian temples that have survived, some in ruins, include the diverse styles at Mahabalipuram, from the 7th and 8th centuries. According to Meister, the Mahabalipuram temples are "monolithic models of a variety of formal structures all of which already can be said to typify a developed "Dravida" (South Indian) order". They suggest a tradition and a knowledge base existed in South India by the time of the early Chalukya and Pallava era when these were built.  In the Deccan, Cave 3 of the Badami cave temples was cut out in 578 CE, and Cave 1 is probably slightly earlier. Other examples are found in Aihole and Pattadakal.  Medieval period (7th to 16th century) By about the 7th century most main features of the Hindu temple were established along with theoretical texts on temple architecture and building methods. From between about the 7th and 13th centuries a large number of temples and their ruins have survived (though far fewer than once existed).  Many regional styles developed, very often following political divisions, as large temples were typically built with royal patronage.  The Vesara style originated in the region between the Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers that is contemporary north Karnataka. According to some art historians, the roots of Vesara style can be traced to the Chalukyas of Badami (500-753AD) whose Early Chalukya or Badami Chalukya architecture built temples in a style that mixed some features of the nagara and the dravida styles, for example using both the northern shikhara and southern vimana type of superstructure over the sanctum in different temples of similar date, as at Pattadakal. This style was further refined by the Rashtrakutas of Manyakheta (750-983AD) in sites such as Ellora. Though there is clearly a good deal of continuity with the Badami or Early Chalukya style, other writers only date the start of Vesara to the later Western Chalukyas of Kalyani (983-1195 AD), in sites such as Lakkundi, Dambal, Itagi, and Gadag, and continued by the Hoysala empire (1000-1330 AD).  The earliest examples of Pallava architecture are rock-cut temples dating from 610 to 690 CE and structural temples between 690 and 900 CE. The greatest accomplishments of the Pallava architecture are the rock-cut Group of Monuments at Mahabalipuram at Mahabalipuram, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, including the Shore Temple. This group includes both excavated pillared halls, with no external roof except the natural rock, and monolithic shrines where the natural rock is entirely cut away and carved to give an external roof. Early temples were mostly dedicated to Shiva. The Kailasanatha temple also called Rajasimha Pallaveswaram in Kanchipuram built by Narasimhavarman II also known as Rajasimha is a fine example of the Pallava style temple. Western Chalukya architecture linked between the Badami Chalukya Architecture of the 8th century and the Hoysala architecture popularised in the 13th century. The art of Western Chalukyas is sometimes called the "Gadag style" after the number of ornate temples they built in the Tungabhadra – Krishna River doab region of present-day Gadag district in Karnataka. Their temple building reached its maturity and culmination in the 12th century, with over a hundred temples built across the deccan, more than half of them in present-day Karnataka. Apart from temples they are also well known for ornate stepped wells (Pushkarni) which served as ritual bathing places, many of which are well preserved in Lakkundi. Their stepped well designs were later incorporated by the Hoysalas and the Vijayanagara empire in the coming centuries. In the north, Muslim invasions from the 11th century onwards reduced the building of temples, and saw the loss of many existing ones.  The south also witnessed Hindu-Muslim conflict that affected the temples, but the region was relatively less affected than the north. In late 14th century, the Hindu Vijayanagara Empire came to power and controlled much of South India. During this period, the distinctive very tall gopuram gatehouse, (actually a late development, from the 12th century or later), was typically added to older large temples.  Southeast Asian Hindu temples Possibly the oldest Hindu temples in Southeast Asia dates back to 2nd century BCE from the Funan site of Oc Eo in the Mekong Delta. They were probably dedicated to a sun god, Shiva and Vishnu.  The temple were constructed using granite blocks and bricks, one with a small stepped pond.  The earliest evidence trace to Sanskrit stone inscriptions found on the islands and the mainland Southeast Asia is the Võ Cạnh inscription of Champa dated to 2nd or 3rd century CE in Vietnam or in Cambodia between the 4th and 5th century CE. Prior to the 14th-century local versions of Hindu temples were built in Myanmar, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam. These developed several national traditions, and often mixed Hinduism and Buddhism. Theravada Buddhism prevailed in many parts of the South-East Asia, except Malaysia and Indonesia where Islam displaced them both. Hindu temples in Southeast Asia developed their own distinct versions, mostly based on Indian architectural models, both North Indian and South Indian styles. However, the Southeast Asian temple architecture styles are different, and there is no known single temple in India that can be the source of the Southeast Asian temples. According to Michell, it is as if the Southeast Asian architects learned from "the theoretical prescriptions about temple building" from Indian texts, but never saw one. They reassembled the elements with their own creative interpretations. The Hindu temples found in Southeast Asia are more conservative and far more strongly link the Mount Meru-related cosmological elements of Indian thought than the Hindu temples found in the subcontinent. Additionally, unlike the Indian temples, the sacred architecture in Southeast Asia associated the ruler (devaraja) with the divine, with the temple serving as a memorial to the king as much as being house of gods. Notable examples of Southeast Asian Hindu temple architecture are the Shivaist Prambanan Trimurti temple compound in Java, Indonesia (9th century), and the Vishnuite Angkor Wat in Cambodia (12th century).  Design A Hindu temple is a symmetry-driven structure, with many variations, on a square grid of padas, depicting perfect geometric shapes such as circles and squares. Susan Lewandowski states that the underlying principle in a Hindu temple is built around the belief that all things are one, everything is connected. A temple, states Lewandowski, "replicates again and again the Hindu beliefs in the parts mirroring, and at the same time being, the universal whole" like an "organism of repeating cells".: 68, 71  The pilgrim is welcomed through mathematically structured spaces, a network of art, pillars with carvings and statues that display and celebrate the four important and necessary principles of human life—the pursuit of artha (prosperity, wealth), the pursuit of kama (desire), the pursuit of dharma (virtues, ethical life) and the pursuit of moksha (release, self-knowledge). At the centre of the temple, typically below and sometimes above or next to the deity, is mere hollow space with no decoration, symbolically representing Purusa, the Supreme Principle, the sacred Universal, one without form, which is present everywhere, connects everything, and is the essence of everyone. A Hindu temple is meant to encourage reflection, facilitate purification of one's mind, and trigger the process of inner realization within the devotee. The specific process is left to the devotee's school of belief. The primary deity of different Hindu temples varies to reflect this spiritual spectrum.  The site The appropriate site for a Mandir, suggest ancient Sanskrit texts, is near water and gardens, where lotus and flowers bloom, where swans, ducks and other birds are heard, where animals rest without fear of injury or harm. These harmonious places were recommended in these texts with the explanation that such are the places where gods play, and thus the best site for Hindu temples. While major Hindu mandirs are recommended at sangams (confluence of rivers), river banks, lakes and seashore, the Brhat Samhita and Puranas suggest temples may also be built where a natural source of water is not present. Here too, they recommend that a pond be built preferably in front or to the left of the temple with water gardens. If water is neither present naturally nor by design, water is symbolically present at the consecration of temple or the deity. Temples may also be built, suggests Visnudharmottara in Part III of Chapter 93, inside caves and carved stones, on hill tops affording peaceful views, mountain slopes overlooking beautiful valleys, inside forests and hermitages, next to gardens, or at the head of a town street. In practice most temples are built as part of a village or town. Some sites such as the capitals of kingdoms and those considered particularly favourable in terms of sacred geography had numerous temples.  Many ancient capitals vanished and the surviving temples are now found in a rural landscape; often these are the best-preserved examples of older styles. Aihole, Badami, Pattadakal and Gangaikonda Cholapuram are examples.  The plan The design, especially the floor plan, of the part of a Hindu temple around the sanctum or shrine follows a geometrical design called vastu-purusha-mandala. The name is a composite Sanskrit word with three of the most important components of the plan. Mandala means circle, Purusha is universal essence at the core of Hindu tradition, while Vastu means the dwelling structure. Vastupurushamandala is a yantra. The design lays out a Hindu temple in a symmetrical, self-repeating structure derived from central beliefs, myths, cardinality and mathematical principles. The four cardinal directions help create the axis of a Hindu temple, around which is formed a perfect square in the space available. The circle of mandala circumscribes the square. The square is considered divine for its perfection and as a symbolic product of knowledge and human thought, while circle is considered earthly, human and observed in everyday life (moon, sun, horizon, water drop, rainbow). Each supports the other. The square is divided into perfect square grids. In large temples, this is often a 8×8 or 64-grid structure. In ceremonial temple superstructures, this is an 81 sub-square grid. The squares are called ‘‘padas’’. The square is symbolic and has Vedic origins from fire altar, Agni. The alignment along cardinal direction, similarly is an extension of Vedic rituals of three fires. This symbolism is also found among Greek and other ancient civilizations, through the gnomon. In Hindu temple manuals, design plans are described with 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, 36, 49, 64, 81 up to 1024 squares; 1 pada is considered the simplest plan, as a seat for a hermit or devotee to sit and meditate on, do yoga, or make offerings with Vedic fire in front. The second design of 4 padas has a symbolic central core at the diagonal intersection, and is also a meditative layout. The 9 pada design has a sacred surrounded centre, and is the template for the smallest temple. Older Hindu temple vastumandalas may use the 9 through 49 pada series, but 64 is considered the most sacred geometric grid in Hindu temples. It is also called Manduka, Bhekapada or Ajira in various ancient Sanskrit texts. Each pada is conceptually assigned to a symbolic element, sometimes in the form of a deity or to a spirit or apasara. The central square(s) of the 64 is dedicated to the Brahman (not to be confused with Brahmin), and are called Brahma padas. In a Hindu temple's structure of symmetry and concentric squares, each concentric layer has significance. The outermost layer, Paisachika padas, signify aspects of Asuras and evil; the next inner concentric layer is Manusha padas signifying human life; while Devika padas  signify aspects of Devas and good. The Manusha padas typically houses the ambulatory. The devotees, as they walk around in clockwise fashion through this ambulatory to complete Parikrama (or Pradakshina), walk between good on inner side and evil on the outer side. In smaller temples, the Paisachika pada is not part of the temple superstructure, but may be on the boundary of the temple or just symbolically represented. The Paisachika padas, Manusha padas and Devika padas surround Brahma padas, which signifies creative energy and serves as the location for temple's primary idol for darsana. Finally at the very centre of Brahma padas is Garbhagruha(Garbha- Centre, gruha- house; literally the centre of the house) (Purusa Space), signifying Universal Principle present in everything and everyone. The spire of a Hindu temple, called Shikhara in north India and Vimana in south India, is perfectly aligned above the Brahma pada(s).  Beneath the mandala's central square(s) is the space for the formless shapeless all pervasive all connecting Universal Spirit, the Purusha. This space is sometimes referred to as garbha-griya (literally womb house) – a small, perfect square, windowless, enclosed space without ornamentation that represents universal essence. In or near this space is typically a murti. This is the main deity image, and this varies with each temple. Often it is this idol that gives it a local name, such as Vishnu temple, Krishna temple, Rama temple, Narayana temple, Siva temple, Lakshmi temple, Ganesha temple, Durga temple, Hanuman temple, Surya temple, and others. It is this garbha-griya which devotees seek for ‘‘darsana’’ (literally, a sight of knowledge, or vision). Above the vastu-purusha-mandala is a high superstructure called the shikhara in north India, and vimana in south India, that stretches towards the sky. Sometimes, in makeshift temples, the superstructure may be replaced with symbolic bamboo with few leaves at the top. The vertical dimension's cupola or dome is designed as a pyramid, conical or other mountain-like shape, once again using principle of concentric circles and squares (see below). Scholars such as Lewandowski state that this shape is inspired by cosmic mountain of Mount Meru or Himalayan Kailasa, the abode of gods according to its ancient mythology.: 69–72  In larger temples, the outer three padas are visually decorated with carvings, paintings or images meant to inspire the devotee. In some temples, these images or wall reliefs may be stories from Hindu Epics, in others they may be Vedic tales about right and wrong or virtues and vice, in some they may be idols of minor or regional deities. The pillars, walls and ceilings typically also have highly ornate carvings or images of the four just and necessary pursuits of life—kama, artha, dharma, and moksa. This walk around is called pradakshina. Large temples also have pillared halls called mandapa. One on the east side, serves as the waiting room for pilgrims and devotees. The mandapa may be a separate structure in older temples, but in newer temples this space is integrated into the temple superstructure. Mega temple sites have a main temple surrounded by smaller temples and shrines, but these are still arranged by principles of symmetry, grids and mathematical precision. An important principle found in the layout of Hindu temples is mirroring and repeating fractal-like design structure, each unique yet also repeating the central common principle, one which Susan Lewandowski refers to as “an organism of repeating cells”.  Exceptions to the square grid principle Predominant number of Hindu temples exhibit the perfect square grid principle. However, there are some exceptions. For example, the Teli ka Mandir in Gwalior, built in the 8th century CE is not a square but is a rectangle consisting of stacked squares. Further, the temple explores a number of structures and shrines in 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 2:5, 3:5 and 4:5 ratios. These ratios are exact, suggesting the architect intended to use these harmonic ratios, and the rectangle pattern was not a mistake, nor an arbitrary approximation. Other examples of non-square harmonic ratios are found at Naresar temple site of Madhya Pradesh and Nakti-Mata temple near Jaipur, Rajasthan. Michael Meister states that these exceptions mean the ancient Sanskrit manuals for temple building were guidelines, and Hinduism permitted its artisans flexibility in expression and aesthetic independence. The Hindu text Sthapatya Veda describes many plans and styles of temples of which the following are found in other derivative literature: Chaturasra (square), Ashtasra (octagonal), Vritta (circular), Ayatasra (rectangular), Ayata Ashtasra (rectangular-octagonal fusion), Ayata Vritta (elliptical), Hasti Prishta (apsidal), Dvayasra Vrita (rectangular-circular fusion); in Tamil literature, the Prana Vikara (shaped like a Tamil Om sign, ) is also found. Methods of combining squares and circles to produce all of these plans are described in the Hindu texts.  The builders The temples were built by guilds of architects, artisans and workmen. Their knowledge and craft traditions, states Michell, were originally preserved by the oral tradition, later with palm-leaf manuscripts. The building tradition was typically transmitted within families from one generation to the next, and this knowledge was jealously guarded. The guilds were like a corporate body that set rules of work and standard wages. These guilds over time became wealthy, and themselves made charitable donations as evidenced by inscriptions. The guilds covered almost every aspect of life in the camps around the site where the workmen lived during the period of construction, which in the case of large projects might be several years. The work was led by a chief architect (sutradhara). The construction superintendent was equal in his authority. Other important members were stonemason chief and the chief image-maker who collaborated to complete a temple. The sculptors were called shilpins. Women participated in temple building, but in lighter work such as polishing stones and clearing. Hindu texts are inconsistent about which caste did the construction work, with some texts accepting all castes to work as a shilpin. The Brahmins were the experts in art theory and guided the workmen when needed. They also performed consecration rituals of the superstructure and in the sanctum. In the earliest periods of Hindu art, from about the 4th century to about the 10th century, the artists had considerable freedom and this is evidenced in the considerable variations and innovations in images crafted and temple designs. Later, much of this freedom was lost as iconography became more standardized and the demand for iconometry consistency increased. This "presumably reflected the influence of brahman theologians" states Michell, and the "increasing dependence of the artist upon the brahmins" on suitable forms of sacred images. The "individual pursuit of self-expression" in a temple project was not allowed and instead, the artist expressed the sacred values in the visual form through a temple, for the most part anonymously.  The sponsors used contracts for the building tasks. Though great masters probably had assistants to help complete principal images in a temple, the reliefs panels in a Hindu temple were "almost certainly the inspiration of a single artist".  Schools of temple building tradition Along with guilds, surviving texts suggest that several schools of Hindu temple architecture had developed in ancient India. Each school developed its own gurukuls (study centres) and texts. Of these, state Bharne and Krusche, two became most prominent: the Vishwakarma school and the Maya (Devanagari: मय not to be pronounced as Maayaa) school. The Vishwakarma school is credited with treatises, terminology and innovations related to the Nagara style of architecture, while the Maya school with those related to the Dravida style. The style now called Vesara bridges and combines elements of the Nagara and the Dravida styles, it probably reflects one of the other extinct schools. Some scholars have questioned the relevance of these texts, whether the artists relied on śilpa śāstras theory and Sanskrit construction manuals probably written by Brahmins, and did these treatises precede or follow the big temples and ancient sculptures therein. Other scholars question whether big temples and complex symmetric architecture or sculpture with consistent themes and common iconography across distant sites, over many centuries, could have been built by artists and architects without adequate theory, shared terminology and tools, and if so how. According to Adam Hardy – an architecture historian and professor of Asian Architecture, the truth "must lie somewhere in between". According to George Michell – an art historian and professor specializing in Hindu Architecture, the theory and the creative field practice likely co-evolved, and the construction workers and artists building complex temples likely consulted the theoreticians when they needed to.  Various styles of architecture The ancient Hindu texts on architecture such as Brihatsamhita and others, states Michell, classify temples into five orders based on their typological features: Nagara, Dravida, Vesara, ellipse and rectangle. The plan described for each include square, octagonal and apsidal. Their horizontal plan regulates the vertical form. Each temple architecture in turn has developed its own vocabulary, with terms that overlap but do not necessarily mean exactly the same thing in another style and may apply to a different part of the temple. Following a general historical division, the early Hindu temples, up to the 7th or 8th century, are often called classical or ancient temples, while those after the classical period to the 12th or 13th century are sometimes referred to as medieval. However, this division does not reflect a major break in Hindu architecture, which continued to evolve gradually across these periods. The style of Hindu temple architecture is not only the result of the theology, spiritual ideas, and the early Hindu texts but also a result of innovation driven by regional availability of raw materials and the local climate. Some materials of construction were imported from distant regions, but much of the temples were built from readily available materials. In some regions, such as in South Karnataka, the local availability of soft stone led to Hoysala architects to innovate architectural styles that are difficult with hard crystalline rocks. In other places, artists used to cut granite or other stones to build temples and create sculptures. Rock faces allowed artists to carve cave temples or a region's rocky terrain encouraged monolithic rock-cut temple architecture. In regions where stones were unavailable, brick temples flourished. Hindu temple architecture has historically been affected by the building material available in each region, its "tonal value, texture and structural possibilities" states Michell.  India Dravidian architecture Dravidian architecture is an architectural idiom in Hindu temple architecture that emerged from South India, reaching its final form by the 1500 CE. It is seen in Hindu temples, and the most distinctive difference from north Indian styles is the use of a shorter and more pyramidal tower over the garbhagriha or sanctuary called a vimana, where the north has taller towers, usually bending inwards as they rise, called shikhara.  However, for modern visitors to larger temples the dominating feature is the high Gopura or gatehouse at the edge of the compound; large temples have several, dwarfing the vimana; these are a much more recent development. There are numerous other distinct features such as the dvarapalakas – twin guardians at the main entrance and the inner sanctum of the temple and goshtams – deities carved in niches on the outer side walls of the garbhagriha. Mentioned as one of three styles of temple building in the ancient book Vastu shastra, the majority of the existing structures are located in the Southern Indian states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, some parts of Maharashtra, Odisha and Sri Lanka. Various kingdoms and empires such as the Satavahanas, the Vakatakas of Vidarbha, the Cholas, the Chera, the Kakatiyas, the Reddis, the Pandyas, the Pallavas, the Gangas, the Kadambas, the Rashtrakutas, the Chalukyas, the Hoysalas and Vijayanagara Empire among others have made substantial contribution to the evolution of the Dravida architecture.  Dravida and Nagara architecture Of the different styles of temple architecture in India, the Nagara architecture of northern India and the Dravidian architecture of southern India are most common. Other styles are also found. For example, the rainy climate and the materials of construction available in Bengal, Kerala, Java and Bali Indonesia have influenced the evolutions of styles and structures in these regions. At other sites such as Ellora and Pattadakal, adjacent temples may have features drawing from different traditions, as well as features in a common style local to that region and period. In modern era literature, many styles have been named after the royal dynasties in whose territories they were built.  Regional styles The architecture of the rock-cut temples, particularly the rathas, became a model for south Indian temples. Architectural features, particularly the sculptures, were widely adopted in South Indian, Cambodian, Annamese and Javanese temples. Descendants of the sculptors of the shrines are artisans in contemporary Mahabalipuram.  Badami Chalukya architecture The Badami Chalukya Architecture style originated by 5th century in Aihole and was perfected in Pattadakal and Badami.  Between 500 and 757 CE, Badami Chalukyas built Hindu temples out of sandstone cut into enormous blocks from the outcrops in the chains of the Kaladgi hills. In Aihole, known as the "Cradle of Indian architecture," there are over 150 temples scattered around the village. The Lad Khan Temple is the oldest. The Durga Temple is notable for its semi-circular apse, elevated plinth and the gallery that encircles the sanctum sanctorum. A sculpture of Vishnu sitting atop a large cobra is at Hutchimali Temple. The Ravalphadi cave temple celebrates the many forms of Shiva. Other temples include the Konthi temple complex and the Meguti Jain temple. Pattadakal is a World Heritage Site, where one finds the Virupaksha temple; it is the biggest temple, having carved scenes from the great epics of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Other temples at Pattadakal are Mallikarjuna, Kashivishwanatha, Galaganatha and Papanath.  Bengal temple architecture Several styles of temple architecture developed in Bengal. Notable temple architectural styles of Bengal are the Chala, Ratna and Dalan temples. Chala-style is a hut with a sloping roof, which follows the pattern of huts in most villages of Bengal. Ratna-style originated in Bengal from the 15th to 16th centuries, under the Mallabhum kingdom (also called Malla dynasty). One of the most prominent features of the Chala and Ratna style is the terracotta artwork on the temple walls. The Dalan-style is flat-roofed temples with their heavy cornices on S-curved brackets, and this style was later influenced by European ideas in the 19th century. The prominent examples of Chala-style are Siddheshwari Kali Temple of Kalna City and  Palpara Terracotta Temple of Palpara. One of the prominent example of Ratna-style is Ramchandraji temple at Guptipara. The Sharabhuja Gauranga temple at Panchrol is an example of Dalan-style.  	Chala, Ratna and Dalan style Architecture of temples  Gadag architecture The Gadag style of architecture is also called Western Chalukya architecture. The style flourished for 150 years (1050 to 1200 CE); in this period, about 50 temples were built. Some examples are the Saraswati temple in the Trikuteshwara temple complex at Gadag, the Doddabasappa Temple at Dambal, the Kasivisvesvara Temple at Lakkundi, and the Amriteshwara temple at Annigeri. which is marked by ornate pillars with intricate sculpture. This style originated during the period of the Kalyani Chalukyas (also known as Western Chalukya) Someswara I.  	Gadag/Western Chalukya style Architecture of temples  Kalinga architecture The design which flourished in eastern Indian state of Odisha and Northern Andhra Pradesh are called Kalinga style of architecture. The style consists of three distinct type of temples namely Rekha Deula, Pidha Deula and Khakhara Deula. Deula means "temple" in the Odia language. The former two are associated with Vishnu, Surya and Shiva temple while the third is mainly with Chamunda and Durga temples. The Rekha deula and Khakhara deula houses the sanctum sanctorum while the Pidha Deula constitutes outer dancing and offering halls. The prominent examples of Rekha Deula are Lingaraja Temple of Bhubaneswar and Jagannath Temple of Puri. One of the prominent example of Khakhara Deula is Vaital Deula. The Mukhasala structure that remains of the Konark Sun Temple is an example of Pidha Deula.  Māru-Gurjara architecture Māru-Gurjara architecture, or Solaṅkī style, is a style of north Indian temple architecture that originated in Gujarat and Rajasthan from the 11th to 13th centuries, under the Chaulukya dynasty (or Solaṅkī dynasty). Although originating as a regional style in Hindu temple architecture, it became especially popular in Jain temples and, mainly under Jain patronage, later spread across India and to diaspora communities around the world. On the exteriors, the style is distinguished from other north Indian temple styles of the period in "that the external walls of the temples have been structured by increasing numbers of projections and recesses, accommodating sharply carved statues in niches. These are normally positioned in superimposed registers, above the lower bands of moldings. The latter display continuous lines of horse riders, elephants, and kīrttimukhas. Hardly any segment of the surface is left unadorned."   The main shikhara tower usually has many urushringa subsidiary spirelets on it, and two smaller side-entrances with porches are common in larger temples.    Interiors are if anything even more lavishly decorated, with elaborate carving on most surfaces. In particular, Jain temples often have small low domes carved on the inside with a highly intricate rosette design.  Another distinctive feature is "flying" arch-like elements between pillars, touching the horizontal beam above in the centre, and elaborately carved.  These have no structural function, and are purely decorative.  The style developed large pillared halls, many open at the sides, with Jain temples often having one closed and two pillared halls in sequence on the main axis leading to the shrine.  The style mostly fell from use in Hindu temples in its original regions by the 13th century, especially as the area had fallen to the Muslim Delhi Sultanate by 1298.  But, unusually for an Indian temple style, it continued to be used by Jains there and elsewhere, with a notable "revival" in the 15th century.  Since then it has continued in use in Jain and some Hindu temples, and from the late 20th century has spread to temples built outside India by both the Jain diaspora and Hindus.  Some buildings mix Māru-Gurjara elements with those of local temple styles and modern international ones.  Generally, where there is elaborate carving, often still done by craftsmen from Gujarat or Rajasthan, this has more ornamental and decorative work than small figures.  In particular the style is used in India and abroad by the Swaminarayan sect.  Sometimes the Māru-Gurjara influence is limited to the "flying arches" and mandapa ceiling rosettes, and a preference for white marble.  Nepal Newar architecture This style is one of the oldest styles of temples on the Asian continent and derives its shape from Himalayan fir trees. The ground floor is typically the residence of the deity, either Hindu or Buddhist, while the upper floors are used as storage for religious items. There is gajura at the top which is the combination of a lotus base, an upside-down vase, a triangle and a kalasha. The pagoda style flourished in Nepal from the beginning of the 13th century. The temples of Pashupatinath, Changunarayan, Chandeshwori and Banepa are excellent examples of ancient architecture in the pagoda style. The Malla period produced various pagoda-style temples and palaces such as Nayatapola, Dattatraya of Bhaktapur, Kasthamandap of Kathmandu, Taleju Temple, Vajrabarahi, Vajrayogini.  Southeast Asia as part of Greater India Architecture of the southeast nations was inspired by the Indian temple architecture, as those were Indianised as part of the Greater India.  Champa architecture Between the 6th and the 16th century, the Kingdom of Champa flourished in present-day central and southern Vietnam. Unlike the Javanese that mostly used volcanic andesite stone for their temples, and Khmer of Angkor which mostly employed grey sandstones to construct their religious buildings, the Cham built their temples from reddish bricks.  The most important remaining sites of Cham bricks temple architecture include Mỹ Sơn near Da Nang, Po Nagar near Nha Trang, and Po Klong Garai near Phan Rang. Typically, a Cham temple complex consisted of several different kinds of buildings. They are kalan, a brick sanctuary, typically in the form of a tower with garbahgriha used to host the murti of deity. A mandapa is an entry hallway connected with a sanctuary. A kosagrha or "fire-house" is a temple construction typically with a saddle-shaped roof, used to house the valuables belonging to the deity or to cook for the deity. The gopura was a gate-tower leading into a walled temple complex. These building types are typical for Hindu temples in general; the classification is valid not only for the architecture of Champa, but also for other architectural traditions of Greater India.  Indonesian architecture Temples are called candi (pronounced [tʃandi]) in Indonesia, whether it is Buddhist or Hindu. A Candi refers to a structure based on the Indian type of single-celled shrine, with a pyramidal tower above it (Meru tower in Bali), and a portico for entrance, mostly built between the 7th to 15th centuries. In Hindu Balinese architecture, a candi shrine can be found within a pura compound. The best example of Indonesian Javanese Hindu temple architecture is the 9th century Prambanan (Shivagrha) temple compound, located in Central Java, near Yogyakarta. This largest Hindu temple in Indonesia has three main prasad towers, dedicated to Trimurti gods. Shiva temple, the largest main temple is towering to 47 metre-high (154 ft). The term "candi" itself is believed was derived from Candika, one of the manifestations of the goddess Durga as the goddess of death. The candi architecture follows the typical Hindu architecture traditions based on Vastu Shastra. The temple layout, especially in central Java period, incorporated mandala temple plan arrangements and also the typical high towering spires of Hindu temples. The candi was designed to mimic Meru, the holy mountain the abode of gods. The whole temple is a model of Hindu universe according to Hindu cosmology and the layers of Loka. The candi structure and layout recognize the hierarchy of the zones, spanned from the less holy to the holiest realms. The Indic tradition of Hindu-Buddhist architecture recognize the concept of arranging elements in three parts or three elements. Subsequently, the design, plan and layout of the temple follows the rule of space allocation within three elements; commonly identified as foot (base), body (centre), and head (roof). They are Bhurloka represented by the outer courtyard and the foot (base) part of each temples, Bhuvarloka represented by the middle courtyard and the body of each temples, and Svarloka which symbolized by the roof of Hindu structure usually crowned with ratna (sanskrit: jewel) or vajra.  Khmer architecture Before the 14th century, the Khmer Empire flourished in present-day Cambodia with its influence extended to most of mainland Southeast Asia. Its great capital, Angkor (Khmer: អង្គរ, "Capital City", derived from Sanskrit "nagara"), contains some of the most important and the most magnificent example of Khmer temple architecture. The classic style of Angkorian temple is demonstrated by the 12th century Angkor Wat. Angkorian builders mainly used sandstone and laterite as temple building materials. The main superstructure of typical Khmer temple is a towering prasat called prang which houses the garbhagriha inner chamber, where the murti of Vishnu or Shiva, or a lingam resides. Khmer temples were typically enclosed by a concentric series of walls, with the central sanctuary in the middle; this arrangement represented the mountain ranges surrounding Mount Meru, the mythical home of the gods. Enclosures are the spaces between these walls, and between the innermost wall and the temple itself. The walls defining the enclosures of Khmer temples are frequently lined by galleries, while passage through the walls is by way of gopuras located at the cardinal points. The main entrance usually adorned with elevated causeway with cruciform terrace.  Glossary The Hindu texts on temple architecture have an extensive terminology. Most terms have several different names in the various Indian languages used in different regions  of India, as well as the Sanscrit names used in ancient texts.  A few of the more common terms are tabulated below, mostly in their Sanscrit/Hindi forms:  Gallery See also Temple tank Vedic altars Indonesian architecture, Candi of Indonesia Rock-cut architecture Indian rock-cut architecture Architecture of Angkor Hemadpanthi architecture Style Dhvajastambha (flagstaff)  Notes References Bibliography Prasanna Kumar Acharya (2010), An encyclopaedia of Hindu architecture, Oxford University Press (Republished by Motilal Banarsidass), ISBN 978-81-7536-534-6 Prasanna Kumar Acharya (1997). A Dictionary of Hindu Architecture: Treating of Sanskrit Architectural Terms with Illustrative Quotations. Oxford University Press (Reprinted in 1997 by Motilal Banarsidass). ISBN 978-81-7536-113-3. Prasanna Kumar Acharya (1996). Hindu Architecture in India and Abroad. Laurier. ISBN 978-81-215-0732-5. Vinayak Bharne; Krupali Krusche (2014), Rediscovering the Hindu Temple: The Sacred Architecture and Urbanism of India, Cambridge Scholars Publishing, ISBN 978-1-4438-6734-4 Alice Boner (1990). Principles of Composition in Hindu Sculpture: Cave Temple Period. Motilal Banarsidass. ISBN 978-81-208-0705-1. Alice Boner; Sadāśiva Rath Śarmā (2005), Śilpa Prakāśa, Brill Academic (Reprinted by Motilal Banarsidass), ISBN 978-81-208-2052-4 A.K. Coomaraswamy; Michael W. Meister (1995). Essays in Architectural Theory. Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. ISBN 978-0-19-563805-9. Dehejia, V. (1997). Indian Art. Phaidon: London. ISBN 0-7148-3496-3. Heather Elgood (2000). Hinduism and the Religious Arts. Bloomsbury Academic. ISBN 978-0-304-70739-3. Adam Hardy (1995), Indian Temple Architecture: Form and Transformation, Abhinav Publications, ISBN 978-81-7017-312-0 Adam Hardy (2007). The Temple Architecture of India. Wiley. ISBN 978-0-470-02827-8. Adam Hardy (2015). Theory and Practice of Temple Architecture in Medieval India: Bhoja's Samarāṅgaṇasūtradhāra and the Bhojpur Line Drawings. Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. ISBN 978-93-81406-41-0. Hardy, Adam (2007). The Temple Architecture of India, Wiley: Chichester. ISBN 978-0-470-02827-8 Hegewald, Julia A. B. (2011). "The International Jaina Style? Māru-Gurjara Temples Under the Solaṅkīs, throughout India and in the Diaspora". Ars Orientalis. 45 (20210122). doi:10.3998/ars.13441566.0045.005. ISSN 2328-1286. Harle, J.C., The Art and Architecture of the Indian Subcontinent, 2nd edn. 1994, Yale University Press Pelican History of Art, ISBN 0300062176 Knut A. Jacobsen; Helene Basu; Angelika Malinar; et al. (2009). Brill's Encyclopedia of Hinduism: Sacred texts, ritual traditions, arts, concepts. Brill Academic. ISBN 978-90-04-17893-9. Monica Juneja (2001). Architecture in Medieval India: Forms, Contexts, Histories. Orient Blackswan. ISBN 978-81-7824-228-6. Stella Kramrisch (1976), The Hindu Temple Volume 1, Motilal Banarsidass (Reprinted 1946 Princeton University Press), ISBN 978-81-208-0223-0 Stella Kramrisch (1979). The Hindu Temple Volume 2. Motilal Banarsidass (Reprinted 1946 Princeton University Press). ISBN 978-81-208-0224-7. Michael W. Meister; Madhusudan Dhaky (1986). Encyclopaedia of Indian temple architecture. American Institute of Indian Studies. ISBN 978-0-8122-7992-4. George Michell (1988), The Hindu Temple: An Introduction to Its Meaning and Forms, University of Chicago Press, ISBN 978-0-226-53230-1 George Michell (2000), Hindu Art and Architecture, Thames & Hudson, ISBN 978-0-500-20337-8 Michell, George (1990), The Penguin Guide to the Monuments of India, Volume 1: Buddhist, Jain, Hindu, 1990, Penguin Books, ISBN 0140081445 George Michell (1995), Architecture and Art of Southern India, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-0-521-44110-0 T. A. Gopinatha Rao (1993). Elements of Hindu iconography. Motilal Banarsidass. ISBN 978-81-208-0878-2. Rajan, K.V. Soundara (1998). Rock-Cut Temple Styles. Somaiya Publications: Mumbai. ISBN 81-7039-218-7 Sedyawati, Edi; Santiko, Hariani; Djafar, Hasan; Maulana, Ratnaesih; Ramelan, Wiwin Djuwita Sudjana; Ashari, Chaidir (2013). Candi Indonesia: Seri Jawa (in Indonesian and English). Jakarta: Direktorat Jenderal Kebudayaan. ISBN 978-602-17669-3-4. Ajay J. Sinha (2000). Imagining Architects: Creativity in the Religious Monuments of India. University of Delaware Press. ISBN 978-0-87413-684-5. Soekmono, R. (1995). Jan Fontein (ed.). The Javanese Candi: Function and Meaning, Volume 17 from Studies in Asian Art and Archaeology, Vol 17. Leiden: E.J. BRILL. ISBN 978-90-04-10215-6. Stella Snead; Wendy Doniger; George Michell (1989). Animals in Four Worlds: Sculptures from India. University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-76726-0. D Srinivasan (1997). Many Heads, Arms, and Eyes: Origin, Meaning, and Form of Multiplicity in Indian Art. BRILL Academic. ISBN 978-90-04-10758-8. Burton Stein (1978). South Indian Temples. Vikas. ISBN 978-0-7069-0449-9. Burton Stein (1989). The New Cambridge History of India: Vijayanagara. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-26693-2. Burton Stein; David Arnold (2010). A History of India. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-1-4443-2351-1. Kapila Vatsyayan (1997). The Square and the Circle of the Indian Arts. Abhinav Publications. ISBN 978-81-7017-362-5.  External links Sabha, Vedic altar, Indian temples and Buddhist Mandala: Drawings, Patrick George, University of Pennsylvania Space and Cosmology in the Hindu Temple Hindu Javanese Temples (archived 24 June 2004)

The Torneo Gran Alternativa (November 1999) (Spanish for "Great Alternative Tournament") was the a professional wrestling tournament held by the Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL; Spanish for "World Wrestling Council") in 1996. As it is a professional wrestling tournament, it is not won or lost competitively but instead by the decisions of the bookers of a wrestling promotion that is not publicized prior to the shows to maintain the illusion that professional wrestling is a competitive sport. In 1996 decided to host two  Gran Alternativa  tournaments, with the second one being held on November 15, 1996, in Mexico City, Mexico. Unlike any of the other Torneo Gran Alternativa tournaments before or after, this tournament featured a preliminary round of 20 rookies in a league style tournament to qualify for the actual tag team tournament. The rookies were divided into four groups of five, in a round-robin series of matches where the top two point earners would advance to the tournament. Qualifying for the tournament were Máscara Mágica, Rey Bucanero, Olímpico, Mr. Niebla, Astro Rey Jr., Atlantico, Karloff Lagarde Jr. and Jaguar. Emilio Charles Jr. and Rey Bucanero won the Torneo Gran Alternativa by defeating the teams of Lizmark Jr. and Jaguar, Satánico and Karloff Lagarde Jr. and Héctor Garza and Mr. Niebla. Rey Bucanero became one of CMLL's main players as he would become a key member of Los Guerreros del Infierno.  History Starting in 1994 the Mexican professional wrestling promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) created a special tournament concept where they would team up a novato, or rookie, with a veteran for a single-elimination tag team tournament with the purpose of increasing the profile of the rookie wrestler. CMLL had used a similar concept in August 1994 where Novato Shocker teamed up with veterans Ringo Mendoza and Brazo de Plata to defeat novato Apolo Dantés and veterans Gran Markus Jr. and El Brazo in the finals of a six-man tag team tournament. CMLL would later modify the concept to two-man tag teams instead, creating a tournament that would be known as El Torneo Gran Alternativa, or "The Great Alternative Tournament", which became a recurring event on the CMLL calendar. CMLL did not hold a Gran Alternativa tournament in 1997 and 2000 held on each year from 2001 through 2014, opting not to hold a tournament in 2015.  Tournament For the November 1996 version of the Gran Alternativa, CMLL used a two-stage tournament, unlike any previous or future tournament. For the first round 20 rookies faced off against each other in four blocks of a round-robin series of matches where the top two point earners would advance to the tag team portion of the tournament.  Tournament background Gran Alternativa participants  Tournament brackets Aftermath The Gran Alternativa victory signaled the beginning of Rey Bucanero's rise up the ranks of CMLL. In 1999 he became part of El Satánico's reformed Los Infernales group alongside Último Guerrero. The group later turned on Satánico to form Los Guerreros del Infierno (The Infernal Soldiers). Bucanero and Guerrero worked as a regular tag team throughout the 2000s, leading to them being voted the "Best Tag Team of the Decade" by the readers of the Wrestling Observer Newsletter. Over the years Rey Bucanero would hold a number of CMLL championships , including: CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship, CMLL World Tag Team Championship four times, CMLL World Trios Championship, and the NWA World Historic Light Heavyweight Championship. The other rookie finalist, Mr. Niebla, would also advance up the ranks of CMLL. A year after the Gran Alternativa tournament he won the mask of Shocker in the main event of the CMLL 66th Anniversary Show. He would go on to work for a number of other Mexican wrestling promotions as well, such as AAA and International Wrestling Revolution Group. Over the years he would go on to hold various championships in CMLL: CMLL World Heavyweight Championship, CMLL World Tag Team Championship, CMLL World Trios Championship twice, Mexican National Trios Championship twice, as well as winning the 2014 Gran Alternativa, and the 2012 Torneo de Parejas Increibles.   == References ==

Ballyea is a Gaelic Athletic Association club in the parish of Ballyea/Clarecastle in County Clare, Ireland founded in 1935.  History In 2016, Ballyea coached by Robbie Hogan won their first ever Clare Senior Hurling Championship when they defeated Clonlara in the final by 2–14 to 1–14 after a replay. The next week on 6 November, they defeated Thurles Sarsfields from Tipperary in the Munster Semi-final by 4–18 to 1–22 after extra-time. On 20 November 2016, Ballyea won the Munster Senior Club Hurling Championship after a 1–21 to 2–10 victory over Glen Rovers at Semple Stadium. On 4 February 2017, Ballyea qualified for the 2017 All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship Final after a 1–19 to 2–14 win against St. Thomas in the semi-final at Semple Stadium. Having led by 13 points in the second half, they overcame a late fightback by St. Thomas's to win by 2 points. In the final on 17 March 2017 against Cuala from Dublin, Ballyea lost by 2–19 to 1–10. In 2018, Ballyea captained by Tony Kelly won their second county senior hurling title after a 1-20 to 1-14 victory against Cratloe. In 2022, Ballyea completed their first ever back-to-back county championship win, with James Murphy lifting the Canon Hamilton trophy, with a one point win over their neighbours Éire Óg, Ennis, a year after beating Inagh-Kilnamona by the same margin in 2021.  Major honours All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship Runners-Up: 2017 Munster Senior Club Hurling Championship (1): 2016 Clare Senior Hurling Championship (4): 2016, 2018, 2021, 2022 Clare Intermediate Hurling Championship (2): 1944, 2001 Clare Junior A Hurling Championship (3): 1940, 1982, 1991 Clare Under-21 A Hurling Championship (1): 2012  Notable players Jack Browne Paul Flanagan Tony Griffin Tony Kelly Gary Brennan  References External links Clare GAA site Clare GAA club sites Clare on Hoganstand.com

James Joseph Nejdl ( NAY-dəl) (1874 – 1938) was a politician from the U.S. state of Indiana. In 1924 and 1925 he served as acting Lieutenant Governor of Indiana.  Life James Nejdl was born on 24 November 1874 in the Bohemian Kingdom which later became the Czech Republic. He emigrated to the United States in 1898 with his parents to Chicago. Like his family, James was a bricklayer who turned contractor. James and Mary, his wife, settled down in Whiting, Indiana, sometime before 1900. James joined the Whiting City Council in 1902, and left in 1904. James was appointed as Post Master General July 1, 1909.  Political career He joined the Republican Party and was elected to the Indiana Senate in 1916, inaugurated 1917. He was elected as one of two senators from Lake County. Although he received the fewest votes, of three candidates, at the primaries Nejdl still moved on to November. James became the President Pro Tempore after a scandal hit Indiana. On 30 April 1924 Governor Warren T. McCray resigned from his office following his conviction for mail fraud. His Lieutenant Governor Emmett Forrest Branch followed him as new Governor of Indiana. According to the state constitution the now vacant position of the Lieutenant Governor was filled by the President Pro Tempore of the State Senate, James Nejdl. He served in this position between 30 April 1924 and 12 January 1925 when his term ended.  Pension Legislative Work James's big two legislative contributions were of Wet Laws/Petitions and Old-Age Pensions.  Death His wife died in 1937. James Nejdl died on 3 July 1938 in Cook County in Illinois. He died of Pneumonia at the age of 63.  External links James J. Nejdl at Find a Grave The Political Graveyard Newspaper Article from 26 February 1925, showing Nejdl as President Pro Tempore of the Indiana Senate "James J. Nejdl, Calumet Immigrant Who Became Political Power, Dies", Indianapolis Star, July 6, 1938, page 4.

The Glover Prize is an Australian annual art prize awarded for paintings of the landscape of Tasmania The prize was inaugurated in 2004 by the John Glover Society, based in Evandale, Tasmania, in honour of the work of British-born landscape painter John Glover, who lived and painted in the area from 1832 until his death in 1849. The current prize amount of A$ 50,000 is the highest for landscape painting in Australia. The 2012 award was controversial: the winning picture included a depiction of convicted Port Arthur massacre spree killer Martin Bryant in the landscape of Port Arthur.  History John Glover lived the last 17 years of his life in northern Tasmania.  In 2001, "Mount Wellington and Hobart Town with Natives Dancing and Bathing", one of his many landscape works that were sent back to England, was sold for more than $1.5 million. The Glover Prize has been described as "a little heart beat, a funny little committee that had a little bit of money and had an idea". By 2019, the prize had attracted 480 entrants.  Conditions for the prize The John Glover Society has specified that the prize is limited to works depicting Tasmanian landscapes.  Winners 2004 The winner of the inaugural Prize was Longford based artist Michael McWilliams, for the painting  Bandicoot on a Log Bandicoots are small to medium-sized terrestrial marsupials endemic to Australia. The painting now hangs in the departure lounge of Launceston Airport. His acrylics on linen work Bush Blankets was awarded the $3 000 "People's Choice" 2012 award.  2005 In the second year of the contest, there were more than 130 entries. The winner was Stephen Charles Lees for the painting Wishbone Ridge. Lees, who was born in Sydney, had lived in Tasmanian since 1992.  2006 Hobart artist David Keeling was awarded the third Glover Prize for 45 Minute Walk - Narawntapu.  The winning work was of orthodox oils on canvas medium. The landscape depicted is part of the Narawntapu National Park  2007 The winner of the Prize in 2007 was Raymond Arnold, a Queenstown-based printmaker. The painting in acrylics, entitled Western Mountain Ecology, depicts stacks of freshly-sawn Huon pine. The prize amount was then $30 000.  2008 Hobart Art teacher Neil Haddon was awarded the 2008 Glover Prize for his work Purblind (opiate) The work is enamels on aluminium, and references the cultivation of opium poppies in Tasmanian opium poppy farming industry.  2009 Hobart-based artist Matthew Armstrong was awarded the 2009 Prize for the work Transformed at Night ahead of more than 250 other entrants. Armstrong's work depicted Mellifont Street, Hobart.  2010 Queensland-based artist Ian Waldron was selected from among 272 entries to become the first Indigenous Australian to win the Prize with his work Walach Dhaarr (Cockle Creek), a piece created on Tasmanian oak. "Walach Dhaarr" in the language of the Aboriginal Tasmanians of that region means "Cockle Creek", a location in Tasmania that Waldron described as significant, both archaeologically and as a "site of positive exchange" between indigenous people and French mariners during the late 18th century.  2011 The 2011 prize was awarded to Launceston artist Josh Foley for Gee’s Lookout. The oil painting included pumice in its media. The painting depicts a disused building on the hill overlooking Cataract Gorge in Launceston.  2012 The 2012 winner was awarded to Launceston born Sydney resident artist Rodney Pople for the work Port Arthur.  2013 The 2013 competition attracted 303 entrants; the prize was awarded to Sydney artist Janet Laurence for a work titled Plants Eye View, and depicted a close-up view of flora from the Tarkine region of North-West Tasmania.  2014 The 2014 prize had 42 finalists. The winning work was Looking south from the Labyrinth (to Mt Olympus & Lake St Clair) by New Norfolk born artist Mark Rodda.  2015 The winner of the 2015 prize was Nigel Hewitt for his work Woven, created using wood ash from the 2013 Dunalley bushfires. The work, chosen from 282 entries and 42 finalists, features a forest at Mt Barrow in northern Tasmania. Hewitt divides his time between Perth, Western Australia and Hobart, Tasmania.  2016 In 2016 the prize attracted more than 280 entries and was won by David Keeling, making him the first artist to win the prize twice; he also won the prize in 2006. Keeling's painting titled, Low tide, soft breeze, depicted a coastal track in the Narawntapu National Park, an area that he often uses as a source of inspiration.  2017 2017 saw the Glover Prize awarded to Raymond Arnold, making him a two-time winner of the award, having achieved this also in 2007. Arnold's work was titled La Barque de Dante/Macquarie Harbour Party Barge.  2018 The 2018 Glover Prize was awarded to Halinka Orszulok for the work Ponies, a painting of playground equipment at Cataract Gorge, Launceston at night. Orszulok's work Wreck was one of the 35 finalists in the 2014 Sir John Sulman Prize.  2019 After a record-breaking year with over 480 paintings entered, the 2019 Glover Prize was awarded to Piers Greville for the work Pedder Prime Cuts, an oil and acrylic painting of Lake Pedder, a Tasmanian glacial lake.  2020 The 2020 Glover Prize was awarded to Tasmanian artist Robert O'Connor, for his piece titled: 'Somewhere in the midlands'. O'Connor's painting depicted a large hunk of meat sitting on a bed of mashed potatoes with peas and gravy, shown in front of a Tasmanian landscape. O'Connor had been a finalist in the Glover Prize four times prior to 2020.  2021 The 2021 Glover Prize was won by Hobart artist Sebastian Galloway for a work titled View of Mt. Lyell through an Acid Raindrop. The work is oil paint on copper; the artist stated that the copper medium reflected the mining history of Queenstown.  2022 The 2022 Glover Prize was won by Victorian artist Jennifer Riddle with her work titled Wanderings of the Past and Now. The work is a synthetic polymer on canvas, and depicts Port Davey, in Tasmania.  2012 award controversy The 2012 award-winning painting depicted Port Arthur and included a representation of Martin Bryant holding a gun. The award received criticism. A former police officer who attended the scene of the Port Arthur Massacre described the work as insensitive and outrageous. The CEO of the Port Arthur Historic Site Management Authority was reported as stating that depictions of the massacre were unhelpful to those it affected. Pople addressed the criticism, arguing that the depiction of Byant was a reminder of the brutality of the Port Arthur Prison Colony within a green "surreal beauty" landscape.  References External links Official website Image of Rodney Pople in front of controversial 2012 prize-winning painting from Australian Broadcasting Corporation website Nigel Hewitt with his 2015 prize-winning image, Woven from Australian Broadcasting Corporation website

Alexander Nikolaevich Vinokurov (August 9, 1869 – November 9, 1944) was a Soviet statesman. Member of the All–Russian Central Executive Committee and the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union. Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union (1924–1938).  Biography Born into the family of a financial officer, Vinokurov was educated at the Yekaterinoslav Gymnasium, which he graduated in 1888 and entered the Medical Faculty of Moscow University.  From 1890 he was a member of the revolutionary movement. In 1893 he was one of the founders of the Moscow, and in 1895 of the Yekaterinoslav Social Democratic organizations. Vinokurov became a member of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party in 1898 and joined its Bolshevik wing in 1903. In connection with the failure of the Moscow group of Social Democrats, he was arrested, spent two years in solitary confinement, and in from 1897 to 1902, in exile. Then, from 1905 was involved at party work in Yekaterinoslav and from 1908 in Saint Petersburg. From 1913 to 1917 he was one of the editors of the magazine "Insurance Questions". In 1917 he served as a deputy of the Petrograd State Duma, and since October the Chairman of the First Bolshevik Petrograd State Duma. After the October Revolution, a member of the collegium of the People's Commissariat of Labour of the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic. From 1918 to 1921 he served as People's Commissar of Social Security of the Russian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic. From 1921 to 1923, he worked as a member of the Famine Relief Commission, then the Commission to Combat the Effects of Famine.  From 1924 to 1938 Vinokurov Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union. He participated in the struggle for control over the justice authorities with Vyshinsky and Krylenko. In 1938, he was dismissed from his post and appointed Head of the Health Education Department of the People's Commissariat of Health of the Soviet Union. He was cremated, buried in the old territory of the Novodevichy Cemetery in the wall of the monastery.  Participation in mass repressions As the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union, he is directly responsible for participating in mass repressions in the Soviet Union. According to archival materials (the fund of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union in the State Archives of the Russian Federation), he tried to minimize mass repressions as much as possible. He was a supporter of the rule of law in the work of Soviet courts.  Perpetuation of memory In 1963, Moscow's 3rd Cheryomushkinsky Lane was renamed Vinokurov Street.  References External links Biography on Chronos This article includes content derived from the Great Soviet Encyclopedia, 1969–1978, which is partially in the public domain.

The 2010 Championship League Darts was the third edition of a darts competition — the Championship League Darts. The competition is organized and held by the Professional Darts Corporation, with the 2010 edition having a maximum prize fund of £189,000. The format of the tournament is similar to the Premier League Darts tournament, also organized by the PDC, except it is contested by a larger pool of players who are split up into a number of groups. Every match could be watched on one of the ten bookmaker websites who broadcast the competition. The tournament was available globally through the internet, except in the United States of America where it cannot be shown for legal reasons.  Format The first group consisted of the top eight players from the PDC Order of Merit who were available for the competition. These eight players played each other over the course of a day, receiving two points for each win. All matches were contested over a maximum of 11 legs with a player winning the match on reaching 6 legs. After all players had played each other, the four players with the most points progressed to the semi-finals with the winners of those matches progressing into the final. The winner of the final progressed to the winners group which took place at the end of the competition. The runner-up, losing semi-finalists and the players finishing fifth and sixth moved into group two, where they were joined by the next three players in the Order of Merit. The format of the second group was the same as the first group with players moving into the third group. In total there were 8 groups before the final group took place. This format ensures that all players who do not win the group or finish in the last two positions have another chance to qualify for the winners group.  Qualification Players must have been in the top 29 places in the PDC Order of Merit following the 2010 World Matchplay in order to qualify. The top 31 places were used due to Mervyn King and Raymond van Barneveld withdrawing from the tournament through injury. PDC Order of Merit following 2010 World Matchplay:  Prize money The prize money remained unchanged from the previous two tournaments.  Groups 1–8 In groups 1–8 the prize money were as follows:  Group Matches – £50 per leg won Play-off Matches – £100 per leg won  Winners group In the winners group the prize money were as follows:  Group Matches – £100 per leg won Play-off Matches – £200 per leg won In addition the winners group had separate prizes for the winner, runner-up and losing semi-finalists. These prizes broke down as follows:  Winner – £10,000 and a place in the 2010 Grand Slam of Darts Runner-up – £5,000 and a place in the 2010 Grand Slam of Darts Losing Semi-finalists – £2,500 each  Tournament dates The tournament took place over 9 days throughout September and October 2010. One group was played on each day. The dates were as follows:  Group 1 – Tuesday September 7 Group 2 – Wednesday September 8 Group 3 – Thursday September 9 Group 4 – Tuesday September 21 Group 5 – Wednesday September 22 Group 6 – Thursday September 23 Group 7 – Tuesday October 12 Group 8 – Wednesday October 13 Winners Group – Thursday October 14 The tournament took place at the Crondon Park Golf Club in Essex.  * Mervyn King withdrew from the tournament after Group 1 due to injury, with Co Stompé taking his place in Group 2. ** Raymond van Barneveld was due to play in Group 4 but withdrew due to injury, with Dennis Priestley taking his place in the group.  Group one Played on Tuesday September 7.  Group two Played on Wednesday September 8.  Final Group three Played on Thursday September 9.  Group four Played on Tuesday September 21.  Group Five Played on Wednesday September 22.  Group Six Played on Thursday September 23.  Group Seven Played on Tuesday October 12.  Group Eight Played on Wednesday October 13.  Winners Group Played on Thursday October 14.  Final References  [1]

The ducktail is a men's haircut style popular during the 1950s. It is also called the duck's tail, duck's ass, duck's arse, or simply D.A. and is also described as slicked back hair. The hair is pomaded (greased), combed back around the sides, and parted centrally down the back of the head.  History Joe Cirello, a barber from Philadelphia, said he had invented the duck's ass in 1940, and he called the swung hair sides and their termination 'The Swing', after the musical style of the day. He'd practiced on a lonely blind boy for about eighteen months. The duck's tail became an emblematic coiffure of disaffected young males across the English-speaking world during the 1950s. In Britain, it formed part of the visual identity of teddy boys and rockers, along with the quiff and the elephant's trunk.  Combing technique The style required that the hair be combed back around the sides of the head. The teeth edge of a comb was then used to define a central parting running from the crown to the nape at the back of the head, resembling, to many, the rear end of a duck. The hair on the top front of the head was either deliberately disarrayed so that untidy strands hung down over the forehead, or combed up and then curled down into an 'elephant's trunk' which would hang down as far as the top of the nose. The sides were styled to resemble the folded wings of the duck. A variant of the style, the Detroit, consisted of the long back and sides combined with a flattop. In California, the top hair was allowed to grow longer and combed into a wavelike pompadour shape known as a "breaker". The ducktail hair style contributed to the term greasers: to accomplish this look, much pomade (hair grease) was required to hold the hair in place. This was still the era of hair creams, so it only required an increase in the amount to make hair remain in the desired style. Brands of grease used include Black & White, Sweet Georgia Brown, Royal Crown, and Murrays. On the West Coast of the US, pomades such as Dixie Peach or Brylcreem, and tonics such as Wildroot Cream-Oil were popular. To ensure that the hair was just so, the wearer often touched up the D.A. many times during the day by running his greased comb through it. This led to a stylized means of handling the comb by drawing it out of the back pocket of a pair of jeans using the extended index and middle finger, and, holding it thus, running the comb through the two side "wings" of the style to adjust their shape.  Significance The D.A. quickly became a stereotypical feature of rebels, mobsters, and nonconformists, and gained popularity especially after the rise of rock 'n roll legend Elvis Presley, who sported the same look. Although the ducktail was adopted by Hollywood to represent the wild youth of the 1950s, only a minority of males actually sported a D.A., even amongst the British Rockers and Teddy Boys of the same era. The style became popular in India after film star Shammi Kapoor sported it. It is also associated with men of Mediterranean, Eastern European and/or Latin American descent, though in slightly different styles.  See also List of hairstyles  References External links Illustration of a ducktail  The dictionary definition of ducktail at Wiktionary

The 2018 Georgia Secretary of State election was held on November 6, 2018, to elect the Secretary of State of Georgia. It was held concurrently with the 2018 gubernatorial election, as well as elections for the United States Senate and elections for the United States House of Representatives and various state and local elections. Republican Incumbent Secretary of State Brian Kemp chose not to run for re-election and instead ran successfully for governor. Since no candidate received the requisite 50 percent of the vote, the top two candidates, Democrat John Barrow and Republican Brad Raffensperger proceeded to a runoff on December 4, 2018. At 22.98%, the runoff saw the lowest voter turnout  out of any Georgia statewide election since the senate runoff of 1992. In the runoff election, Raffensperger unexpectedly flipped rural counties Sumter and Warren, which were reliably Democratic counties that have not voted Republican on the presidential levels since 1972 for Warren, and 2004 for Sumter. However, both counties have been trending Republican in recent elections. Raffensperger also flipped Atlanta suburban counties Cobb and Newton, which have been trending away from Republicans in recent elections. As of 2022, this was the last time Cobb and Newton went Republican in a statewide race in Georgia. Georgia has been a Republican triplex since 2011, meaning that its governor, attorney general, and secretary of state have all been members of the same party. The state maintained that status following this election, as Republicans won every statewide office. This was the first time in Georgia state history that any statewide executive election went to a second round.  Republican primary Candidates Nominee Brad Raffensperger, state representative  Eliminated in runoff David Belle Isle, Mayor of Alpharetta  Eliminated in primary Buzz Brockway, state representative Joshua McKoon, state senator  Declined John Albers, state senator Steve Gooch, state senator Liz Hausmann, Fulton County Commissioner Brian Kemp, incumbent secretary of state of Georgia (running for governor) Michael Williams, State Senator (running for governor)  Endorsements First round Results Runoff Polling Results Democratic primary Candidates Nominee John Barrow, former U.S. Representative  Eliminated in primary Dee Dawkins-Haigler, former state representative and candidate for the State Senate in 2016 RJ Hadley, former Rockdale County Tax Commissioner and candidate for U.S. Senate in 2010  Declined Teresa Tomlinson, Mayor of Columbus David Worley, Georgia State Elections Board member, former Chair of the Democratic Party of Georgia and nominee for GA-06 in 1990  Results Libertarian convention Candidates Nominee J. Smythe DuVal, registered nurse and medical I.T. entrepreneur  General election Predictions Polling Results Runoff References External links Official campaign websites John Barrow (D) for Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger (R) for Secretary of State J. Smythe DuVal (L) for Secretary of State Archived 2018-02-08 at the Wayback Machine

Abashiri Prison (Japanese: 網走刑務所, Hepburn: Abashiri Keimusho) is a prison in Abashiri, Hokkaido Prefecture that opened in 1890. The northernmost prison in Japan, it is located near the Abashiri River and east of Mount Tento. It holds inmates with sentences of less than ten years. Older parts of the prison were relocated to the base of Mount Tento in 1983, where they operate as the country's only prison museum.  History In part to increase Japanese populations on the island as part of the Meiji Restoration, the Meiji government implemented penal transportation policies for Hokkaido in 1868. In April 1890, the Meiji government sent over a thousand political prisoners to the isolated Abashiri village. Many of these political prisoners were samurai from Tokugawa period who were convicted during the 1877 Satsuma rebellion. Prisoners were forced to perform a variety of tasks from carpentry to agriculture. Notably, poor water quality in neighboring areas forced convicts to build water pipes, dams, and reservoirs to supply their own drinking water and irrigate neighboring fields. In addition, convicts at Abashiri Prison were forced to build roads linking the area to the more populous south. Construction of Hokkaido's Central Road relied on penal labor from Hokkaido. Many prisoners died along one section of the road between Abashiri village and Asahikawa, causing it to be referred to as Prisoner's Road. Initial conditions were extremely harsh, with insufficient food and rest, and over 200 prisoners died as a result of malnutrition, accidents, and as punishment for attempting to escape. The political advisor Kaneko Kentaro had previously submitted a report implying that the government was not responsible for providing funerary services to convicts who perished during the process of road building. During the 1960s, Hokkaido residents were influenced by a nationwide effort to uncover history and began excavating prisoner remains along Prisoner's Road. Abashiri prison was constructed amid the globalization and standardization of penal theory. The built environment facilitated discipline and surveillance, which was emphasized by the panopticon layout of the building. Abashiri Prison later became known for being a self-sufficient farming prison, and was cited as a model for others throughout Japan. Most of the prison burned down in a 1909 fire, but it was reconstructed in 1912. Previously known as Abashiri Kangoku (網走監獄), it took on its current name in 1922. In 1984, the prison moved to a modern reinforced concrete complex. Due to the 1965 film Abashiri Prison and its sequels, the prison became a popular tourist attraction. The prison is also known for its wooden nipopo (ニポポ) dolls carved by its inmates.  Museum In 1983, older parts of the prison were relocated to the base of Mount Tento and operate as a museum called the Abashiri Prison Museum (博物館網走監獄). It is the only prison museum in the country. As of 2016, eight of the buildings preserved at the museum are designated Important Cultural Property by the Agency for Cultural Affairs, while three are registered Tangible Cultural Property. Those who visit the prison partake in dark tourism, tourism centered around areas significant because of death and suffering that occurred in those areas.  Notable inmates Tsuda Sanzō, the policeman who attempted to assassinate Nicholas II of Russia Yoshie Shiratori, the only person to escape from Abashiri Prison Kyuichi Tokuda, politician imprisoned at Abashiri from 1934 to 1940 Kenji Miyamoto, politician Branko Vukelić, Yugoslav spy Shūsuke Nomura, activist George Abe, author and former yakuza Kōzō Minō, former yakuza whose memoirs were turned into the Battles Without Honor and Humanity film series Hajime Itō, author of the novel Abashiri Bangaichi, which was adapted into two films, the second of which spawned the Abashiri Prison film series  In fiction The 1965 film Abashiri Prison spawned a popular series of yakuza films featuring the prison. In the 1984 video game Hokkaido Rensa Satsujin: Ohotsuku ni Kiyu, you play as a detective trying to solve a murder that leads you to Hokkaido, where Nipopo dolls made by the Abashiri Prison inmates play a big role in the story. In the 2012 video game Yakuza 5, one of the protagonists, Taiga Saejima, is incarcerated at and escapes from Abashiri Prison. In "Mako Tanida", a 2014 episode of the television series The Blacklist, the episode's titular yakuza boss escapes from Abashiri Prison. The 2014 manga series Golden Kamuy, set shortly after the Russo-Japanese War, features a raid on Abashiri Prison as one of its major plot points. In the 2020 novel The Lost Future of Pepperharrow by Natasha Pulley, set in 1888 Japan, Abashiri Prison is one of the main plot locations.  References External links  Abashiri Prison Museum official website

Sila María Calderón Serra (born September 23, 1942) is a Puerto Rican politician, businesswoman, and philanthropist who was the governor of Puerto Rico from 2001 to 2005. She is the first woman elected to that office. Prior to her term as governor, Calderón held various positions in the government of Puerto Rico, including the 12th Secretary of State of Puerto Rico from 1988 to 1989, and Chief of Staff to Governor Rafael Hernández Colón. She was also mayor of San Juan, the capital of Puerto Rico, from 1997 to 2001.  Early life and education Sila Calderón Serra was born in San Juan, Puerto Rico on September 23, 1942, to entrepreneur César Augusto Calderón and Sila Serra Jesús. Her maternal grandfather Miguel Serra Joy emigrated from Mallorca, Balearic Islands to Puerto Rico in the late 19th century which granted Calderón Spanish citizenship in 2012. She attended high school at the Colegio Sagrado Corazón de Las Madres in Santurce, Puerto Rico. In 1964 she graduated with honors from Manhattanville College in Purchase, New York, with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Government. She later attended the Graduate School of Public Administration at the University of Puerto Rico.  Professional career First career years: 1973–1985 Her career began in 1973 when she was named Executive Aide to the Labor Secretary, Luis Silva Recio. Two years later, she was named Special Aide for Economic Development to then Governor, Rafael Hernández Colón. After Hernández Colón was defeated in the 1976 general elections, Calderón went to work on the private sector working as Director of Business Development at Citibank, N.A. in San Juan. At the time, Citibank in San Juan was one of John Reed's experimental marketing centers. As part of her business development responsibilities, Calderón designed and marketed several new consumer products which significantly increased the earnings of the Retail Division of the Bank. In 1978, she became president of Commonwealth Investment Company, a family real estate concern that owned and managed industrial buildings.  First government positions: 1985–1990 In 1984, Rafael Hernández Colón was again elected governor and he appointed Calderón as Chief of Staff, being the first woman in that position. In 1988, Hernández Colón named her Puerto Rico's 12th Secretary of State. During this time, Calderón was also part of the Governor's Economic Adviser Council and the board of directors of the Puerto Rico Government Development Bank and the Center for Specialized Studies in Government Management. She also presided the Inversions Committee of the Industrial Development Company. She was also Secretary General of the Commission that organized the activities of the Fifth Centenary of the Discovery of the Americas.  Return to private life: 1989–1995 Calderón resigned in 1989 and returned to her business endeavors. She served on the boards of major local corporations such as BanPonce, Banco Popular, and Pueblo International. She also served as part of the Committee for Economic Development of Puerto Rico, the Sor Isolina Ferré Foundation, and as President of the Puerto Rico Public Broadcasting Corporation during 1991 and 1992.  Political career Mayor of San Juan: 1997–2001 Calderón returned to public life in 1995, running in the Popular Democratic Party (PPD) primary for Mayor of San Juan. She won the primary handily over her two opponents by a huge margin. After that, she became President of the Municipal Committee of the PPD in San Juan, and later became part of the board of directors of the Party. In the 1996 mayoral general election, she was elected Mayor of San Juan, becoming the second woman in the city's history to serve in that office and the first woman elected to the position. As mayor, she undertook one of the largest public works program in the city to date, sponsoring various urban redevelopment projects to revitalize Old San Juan, Condado, Río Piedras, Santurce, and other deteriorated sections of the city. She also initiated the Special Communities Program to assist poor communities’ empowerment and economic development.  Governor: 2001–2004 On April 21, 1999, Calderón presented her candidacy to be Governor of Puerto Rico. On May 31, she won the primary and took the presidency of the party, with then-President Aníbal Acevedo Vilá assuming the role of Vice-president. Acevedo Vilá eventually became Calderón's running mate for Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico. In 2000, Calderón led the Popular Democratic Party (PPD) during a close campaign for governor against Carlos Pesquera (PNP) and Rubén Berríos (PIP). Calderón was elected governor, becoming the first elected female governor in the history of Puerto Rico. After being sworn in, Calderón appointed her two daughters, Sila Mari and María Elena, to serve as First Ladies. As governor, Calderón took action to help the most disadvantaged communities. With the passing of Law 1 of 2001 the government invested $1 billion to create the Puerto Rico Office for Socioeconomic and Community Development with the intention of developing the marginalized communities of the island. The program intended to create 14,500 development projects in 686 communities. The program has been criticized for many of the projects never being completed and funds instead being diverted. In 2003, Calderón announced her determination to fulfill the commitments of her platform and her decision not to seek re-election in 2004. On May 26, 2004, Calderón had to deal with a man who entered La Fortaleza, the governor's mansion, with a knife and took a receptionist hostage, demanding to speak directly with Calderón. After Calderón negotiated with the hostage taker, the man dropped the knife and surrendered to the police.  Present Calderón is a partner in Inter-American Global Links, Inc. (IGlobaL), a business and trade consulting firm with links in Central America, the Caribbean and the United States. She chairs a philanthropic Foundation which has establish a non-profit and non-partisan entity – The Center for Puerto Rico: Sila M. Calderón Foundation –  which gives attention to the issues of poverty, women, urban revitalization, ethical values and social responsibility.  Honours and awards During her career, Calderón has received many honors and awards:  The Puerto Rico Chamber of Commerce named her Outstanding Woman in the Public Sector three times (1975, 1985, 1987). In 2005, she was named as one of the Distinguished Women of the Year by the Product Association of Puerto Rico. In 1987, she was granted the Order of Isabella the Catholic by Juan Carlos I, King of Spain. In 1988, she was selected Leader of the Year in the field of Public Works by the American Public Works Association, Chapter of Puerto Rico. In 2003, she received the Harvard Foundation Award. In 2004, she received the Golden Plate Award from the Academy of Achievement in Washington, DC. Calderón has also received several honorary degrees:  1989 – Manhattanville College – Doctor in Arts and Humanities May 1997 – Manhattanville College – Doctor of Humane Letters May 2001 – Boston University – Doctor of Laws May 2001 – New School University – Doctor of Laws During her tenure, Calderón gave particular attention to strengthening the economic, commercial and cultural ties between Puerto Rico and its Latin American neighbors.  Underlining this effort, official visits were paid by Governor Calderón to the Dominican Republic, Panama and Costa Rica in the years 2001, 2002 and 2004. In recognition of her administration's efforts of collaboration between these countries and Puerto Rico, their governments bestowed upon her their most important civil orders: the Order of Merit of Duarte, Sánchez and Mella of the Dominican Republic; the Order of Núñez de Balboa of Panama; and the Order of Juan Santamaría of Costa Rica.  Personal life Calderón was married to engineer Francisco Xavier González Goenaga from 1964 to 1975. They had three children together: Sila María, Francisco Xavier, and María Elena. Both Sila María and María Elena are attorneys, and they served as "First Ladies" of the Commonwealth during Calderón's governorship. Francisco is an investment banker at RBC Capital Markets. In 1978, Calderón married entrepreneur Adolfo Krans. They divorced in 2001 after 23 years of marriage. Calderón married again, during her tenure as governor, with Ramón Cantero Frau, her former Secretary of the Department of Economic Development. The wedding was celebrated on September 10, 2003. They were divorced two years later.  See also List of governors of Puerto Rico History of women in Puerto Rico List of female governors in the United States  References External links   Media related to Sila M. Calderón at Wikimedia Commons Sila María Calderón at IMDb  Biography by CIDOB (in Spanish)

William Edward Curry Jr. (born December 17, 1951) is an American lawyer and politician who has been a two-time Democratic nominee for Governor of Connecticut and a White House advisor in the administration of Bill Clinton.  Education and early political life Curry was educated at St. Justin's School in Hartford and Northwest Catholic High School in West Hartford. He received his undergraduate degree from Georgetown University and a J.D. degree from the University of Connecticut School of Law. In 1978, at the age of 26, he was elected state senator from a district that included Farmington, Connecticut. Curry served two terms and then faced fellow state senator Nancy Johnson, a moderate Republican from New Britain in 1982 for the open seat formerly held by Toby Moffett in what was then the Sixth Congressional District. Johnson defeated Curry. During the ensuing eight years, Curry practiced law and worked in public policy positions in Washington, D.C. He was head of Freeze Voter, a nuclear freeze group. In 1990, Curry was elected state comptroller after a convention fight, winning statewide election against the Republican nominee, Joel Schiavone. He served one term.  Gubernatorial bids and the White House In 1994, Curry defeated John Larson for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination. The field in the general election included former Republican U.S. Representative John G. Rowland, Eunice Groark (lieutenant governor under the departing officeholder, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr.), Curry and Tom Scott, a former Republican legislator from Milford, Connecticut, and talk show host running a conservative, anti-tax independent candidacy. Rowland won that election by three points. After the election, Curry accepted a post as Counselor to the President and served as domestic strategist in the Clinton White House from February 21, 1995, until January 20, 1997. Curry left the Clinton Administration after the 1996 election and served as visiting fellow at the Yale School of Management. In 2002, Curry again ran against Rowland. While Curry did not face a primary opponent that year, the incumbent enjoyed a fund-raising advantage of roughly 5 to 1. In late September of the campaign, Curry charged that Rowland's administration had awarded contracts based on rigged bidding procedures. Although those charges later proved to be the heart of the scandal that forced Rowland to resign, plead guilty and serve a federal prison sentence, they did not become a significant issue in the campaign. Stressing his accomplishments as Governor, Rowland won his third term by a 12-point margin.  Journalism Curry is a political columnist for Salon. Curry wrote a political column for the Hartford Courant in Hartford, Connecticut. On August 26, 2007, he endorsed a U.S. withdrawal from Iraq.  References External links Biography from Curry's 2002 campaign Appearances on C-SPAN

Kirstie Louise Gordon (born 20 October 1997) is a Scottish cricketer who currently plays for Kent, The Blaze and Trent Rockets as a slow-left arm orthodox bowler. She played for Scotland from 2012 to 2017, before switching nationality to England for the 2018 ICC Women's World Twenty20 tournament. She has previously played for Nottinghamshire, Loughborough Lightning, Birmingham Phoenix and Otago.  Early life Gordon was born in Huntly, Aberdeenshire, Scotland, on 20 October 1997. As a youngster, she represented the North of Scotland at football and tennis. She began to play junior cricket at school and at Huntly Cricket Club. She progressed to play with the Huntly men's  first XI aged 14, taking four wickets on debut.  Career Gordon made her debut for the Scotland women's national cricket team aged 14 in May 2012, in a Women's County Championship match against Gloucestershire, and established herself as a regular member of the team. In 2014 she was named Scotland's under-17 player, batter and bowler of the year. Her first appearances against international opposition came at the 2015 ICC Women's World Twenty20 Qualifier event. In 2015, Gordon moved to England to study for a Sports Science and Management degree at Loughborough University, while also playing county cricket for Nottinghamshire Women. This first brought her to the attention of coaches at the Loughborough-based England Women's Academy. Gordon played for Scotland in the 2017 Women's Cricket World Cup Qualifier in February 2017. In the tournament, she was the highest wicket-taker for Scotland, with eight dismissals. Gordon was offered a part-time contract as a talent identification player with Loughborough Lightning ahead of the 2018 Women's Cricket Super League season. As this was dependent on her not being classed as an overseas player, she was obliged to give up her qualification to play for Scotland in order to accept. She described her change of national status as a "massive risk". Now eligible to represent England, she was named in the squad for the 2018 ICC Women's World Twenty20 tournament. She made her Women's Twenty20 International (WT20I) debut for England against Bangladesh women on 12 November 2018, taking three wickets for sixteen runs. The International Cricket Council (ICC) named Gordon as one of the five breakout stars in women's cricket in 2018. In July 2019, Gordon was named in England's squad for their one-off Test match against Australia, as part of the Women's Ashes. She made her Test debut for England against Australia women on 18 July 2019. In November 2019, she was named in England's Women's One Day International (WODI) squad for their series against Pakistan. On 18 June 2020, Gordon was named in a squad of 24 players to begin training ahead of international women's fixtures starting in England following the COVID-19 pandemic. In January 2020, Gordon left Nottinghamshire after four years to sign for Kent. She returned to Loughborough as part of the Lightning squad for the opening rounds of the 2020 Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy. In 2021, she was the leading wicket-taker in the Rachael Heyhoe Flint Trophy, with 16 wickets. At the end of the 2021 season, it was announced that Gordon had signed a professional contract with Lightning, having missed out on an England central contract earlier that year. She also played for Birmingham Phoenix in the first season of The Hundred. In December 2021, Gordon was named in England's A squad for their tour to Australia, with the matches being played alongside the Women's Ashes. In April 2022, she was bought by the Birmingham Phoenix for the 2022 season of The Hundred. In January 2023, Gordon signed for Otago Sparks for the remainder of the Super Smash. In April 2023, it was announced that Gordon had been appointed captain of The Blaze, the new name for Lightning.  References External links Kirstie Gordon at ESPNcricinfo Kirstie Gordon at CricketArchive (subscription required)

The John F. Limehouse Memorial Bridge, located about 15 miles (24 km) west of downtown Charleston, South Carolina, was completed in 2003. It replaced an obsolete low-level swing bridge over the Stono River. The current bridge, which crosses a channel between Johns Island and St. Andrews Parish, an area generally called West Ashley, was completed under a partnership between the South Carolina Department of Transportation (SCDOT) and the United States Coast Guard.  Purpose The Stono River is a critical part of the 3,000 miles (4,800 km) of Intracoastal Waterway used by barges, fishing boats, and recreational mariners. The former swing bridge, built in 1929, was an obstruction to vessel traffic, thus removal was mandated by the U.S. Coast Guard in an Order to Alter issued in 1994, leaving only a few swing bridges in the Coast Guard’s Seventh District, from Key West, Florida, to the northernmost areas of South Carolina. The current, 2,800-foot-long (850 m) concrete structure is a high-level, fixed span. The new bridge has a horizontal clearance for vessels of 215 feet (66 m) compared with the former clearance of 93 feet (28 m) and a vertical clearance of 65 feet (20 m) above the high-water mark, compared to a previous clearance of only 13 feet (4.0 m) in the closed position. The new structure accommodates four lanes of traffic and provides access to Johns, Kiawah, Seabrook, and Wadmalaw Islands.  Design and construction Design of the bridge was contracted to Ralph Whitehead Associates, Inc., of Charlotte, North Carolina. Construction was awarded to Jones Brothers, Inc., of Mt. Juliet, Tennessee. The Coast Guard provided about $21 million of the total $30 million bridge cost, with the rest paid by the State. The State government donated the debris to the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources artificial reef program. After demolishing the old span, the contractor transported its concrete and steel components to the Kiawah Reef site about 23 miles (37 km) away. The current bridge was opened to traffic in June 2003, approximately two months ahead of schedule.  See also List of bridges documented by the Historic American Engineering Record in South Carolina  References McClure, Douglas E.; Sigmon, Gregory R. (March 1, 2004). "Start to finish: Project makes interesting use of concrete". GoBridges.com. Archived from the original on October 21, 2007. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration locations of tide stations Annual Report and Report of Mass Transit Activities Fiscal Year 2003-2004 (PDF) (Report). South Carolina Department of Transportation. 2005. p. 106. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 25, 2007. U.S. Coast Guard Document, Release 10-11, October 27, 2003 "John F. Limehouse Bridge Replacement (Charleston County, SC)". STV Inc. Archived from the original on October 16, 2009.  External links Historic American Engineering Record (HAER) No. SC-24, "Stono River Bridge, Spanning Stono River between James & Johns Islands, Charleston, Charleston County, SC", 10 photos, 4 data pages, 1 photo caption page of previous structure

